"Lustration" is when those who were previously in power are no longer allowed to hold that power. Because they betrayed us when they were in control. Because we no longer trust them. Because they are likely criminals. We cannot prove this, of course, but we do not want to have any dealings with them anymore. We will dismiss them forever and hire new ones. Honest, decent, worthy, competent, and sincerely passionate about Ukraine. I disagree with this.

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

Certainly, such a view of the situation is understandable if looked at superficially. Yes, indeed, thieves are to blame for theft, murderers for murders, and corrupt individuals for corruption. It would seem logical to assume that by removing them from power, imprisoning them, or eliminating them, we will eradicate theft, violence, and corruption in society.

But let's analyze deeper. First of all, let's agree that all these criminals in power, starting from Yanukovych to the last tax inspector and patrol officer, are also human beings. Many of them are our acquaintances. After all, each of you has friends who are corrupt, don't you?

I'm sure they don't have horns or hooves. They are not "bad" people. Moreover, they are not stupid or lazy. They are the most fortunate and energetic, capable of finding ways to enrich themselves in any situation. They are successful people, that's the main thing. There is no need to hate or despise them.

With our silent consent, the authorities in this country create conditions in which corruption becomes the most convenient and fastest way to make money. It's not about production, healthcare, education, or tourism. If you want to get rich in Ukraine, you shouldn't start a business, but become an investigator in the Security Service, an inspector at the customs, or an administrator in the executive committee. Those who don't understand this are fools and lazy. Those who understand and act on it are commendable.

Changing power and hoping for a change in this depressing situation, we should not demand from our new managers purges: firing the old "scoundrels" and hiring new "honest" people. On the contrary, we should demand the creation of conditions in which it will be disadvantageous for these same people to steal, kill, and take bribes.

Then those people who worked in the Security Service, customs, and executive committee yesterday will go into business, production, and agriculture. As the most energetic and successful individuals, they will quickly figure out where they can earn money faster and will be the first ones there.

You should not rely on honest and naive people who act from pure heart, but on cunning, clever, and selfish individuals who are strictly bound by the law. If the authority acts in this way, by changing laws and methods of control without changing people, it can be trusted. Otherwise, if the authority purges its former comrades, can we trust it?

Put a wolf to guard the sheep herd. When he kills the first sheep, kill him as someone who has lost trust. And invite a new wolf. That will be the illustration.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:03:42 +0300.