Yesterday, I spoke at a small programming conference and witnessed the organizers collecting 50 hryvnias to help children with cancer. It's a good cause, so I donated 100 hryvnias. Afterwards, I asked why we have to raise money. Why doesn't the government, to which we pay taxes specifically for this purpose, cover the children's treatment? The answer was obvious - everyone there is stealing, and the children don't receive anything. The only hope lies with good-hearted people. Let's examine whether our actions truly reflect kindness.

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

Healthcare in Ukraine is indeed free. In the recently adopted budget for 2017, the Ministry of Health will receive 62 billion hryvnias (8.6% of the budget and 2.7% of GDP). At the current exchange rate of the dollar to the hryvnia, this is $2.4 billion. There are 42 million people living in Ukraine. That means $57 will be spent per person in 2017.

Apparently, with this amount of money, Ukraine will continue to successfully maintain its first place in the world in terms of natural population decline and still not enter the top 50 countries in the healthcare efficiency rating.

$57 в год. Много это или мало?

Let's compare with Singapore, which ranks second in this rating. Singapore spends 4.9% of its GDP on healthcare, which amounts to $2752 per Singaporean. This is 48 times more than our government plans to spend per Ukrainian in 2017.

Сколько в других странах?

In this table, it can be seen that different countries spend different proportions of their GDP on the healthcare of their citizens: from "negligible" 2% in Qatar to 13% in the Netherlands and a huge 17% in the United States. However, these three countries have a well-functioning healthcare system. Therefore, the issue does not lie in the percentage but apparently in the absolute dollar figure that each citizen is allocated: in Ukraine, it is $57, while in Qatar it is $572, in Singapore $2572, in South Korea $2060, in Japan $3703, in Israel $2910, and in Switzerland it exceeds $6100.

However, these are all developed countries. Let's look at the numbers for developing countries: $23 in Pakistan, $34 in Kenya, $36 in Cambodia, $40 in India, $58 in Vietnam, and so on. It is evident that Ukraine currently occupies a prestigious place among the poorest countries in the world, surpassing them all in terms of population decline. In other words, things are going very, very badly.

Let's now turn back to the issue of charity. It is obvious that with the situation in the country, consistently created over the course of twenty years by the presidents and governments we have elected, there is no hope for any adequate treatment for children with cancer.

Certainly, they want to help. However, consider that by helping them, we are indirectly helping criminals stay in power. Instead of highlighting the problem for its ultimate resolution, which would lead to significant societal changes and Ukraine's removal from the list of poorest countries, by helping children out of our own pockets, we cowardly and hypocritically hide the facts.

Children receive treatment thanks to our donations, while the degradation of the state apparatus continues.

Therefore, if you truly care about the fate of sick children, do not donate money for their treatment, but do something more radical that leads to real changes. By donating, you are only appeasing your conscience while helping corrupt officials, the main enemies of sick children, to remain in power.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:06:31 +0300.