I have a great sympathy for Mikheil Saakashvili as a strong personality and, in my opinion, the only Ukrainian politician with a great future. However, I completely fail to understand this populism with the Ukrainian language. Why do you do this, Mikheil?

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

I understand why Azarov, Yanukovych, and others like Yatsenyuk engaged in this. Their main tool for retaining power was and still is populism: "a style of rhetoric that appeals to the needs of the masses in contrast to the needs of the elite."

<aside class="quote">It is very easy to govern any nation - you just need to inform them that they are going to be attacked, show them an enemy, and declare all pacifists unpatriotic. <span>Hermann Göring</span></aside>

The Ukrainian language is a wonderful way to demonstrate care for the needs of the people, especially now during the tense period in relations with Russia. By emphasizing the special value of the Ukrainian language, any politician can easily play the card of the "external enemy," contrasting us, true Ukrainians and patriots, with the <del>unfaithful</del> imperial aggressors. Language is a kind of flag that can be quickly raised: if I speak Ukrainian, it means I am for you and against them. However, by collaborating with the real enemy or effectively becoming one.

During times of war, when the main enemy is truly outside, the ability to quickly rally the masses around oneself and their plans is crucial. For example, the authorities of the USSR during World War II referred to the war as a people's and sacred war, and the land as Russian. This was vital, as the enemy was external, and it was important for the masses to have a clear direction for their fight: we are Russians, they are Germans. This manipulation of mass consciousness at that time made sense and was justified by the goals of the ruling elite of the USSR: the enemy was objectively external.

Currently, in Ukraine, according to Saakashvili himself, the main enemy is an internal enemy: corruption. Officials in offices with stamps and calculators, not separatists at checkpoints with guns and leaflets, are our main enemies. In our fight against them, we expect you to call on us to unite.

So why distract ourselves with imaginary enemies and raise false flags, Mikhail?

If you spoke Russian and didn't even try to learn Ukrainian and switch to it, you would only emphasize your clear stance towards corrupt officials, regardless of their nationality and language, and would avoid suspicion and accusations of populism.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:02:22 +0300.