Recently, Vladimir Putin held a meeting with the Council for the Development of Civil Society and Human Rights, during which he "strongly criticized some of the still existing gross violations of legality and human rights in Russia." In particular, the President gave an example of an absurd court decision: "The judge's ruling states that a person committed a crime by writing a statement to the Lipetsk regional prosecutor's office. Such things make my hair stand on end. What is this? Have they completely lost their minds?" And indeed, where is this leading to?

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

This is not acceptable at all. But I'm not talking about the Lipetsk regional prosecutor. I'm talking about the president who is protecting us from himself, emotionally disapproving at the same time.

We see in the power structure, starting from the president and ending with the Lipetsk regional prosecutor, the main enemy and the main force threatening our rights. They rule, we obey. They decide, we execute. They allow, we rejoice. They forbid, we become sad and endure.

These emotions of ours are the foundation and guarantee of stability in power.

We forget that these people, starting from Vladimir Vladimirovich and ending with the prosecutor in Lipetsk, are chosen by us to serve us and at our expense. We like to see them as our superiors, although in fact, the superiors are exactly us, the people who chose and feed them.

Our fear of any presidents or prosecutors is equivalent to the fear of a guard at a warehouse: the warehouse is ours, the goods are also ours, and we are the ones paying the salary. And then, after some time, this guard starts dictating the rules of visiting our own warehouse, not allowing us in on weekends and taking half of our products for themselves. Will this behavior earn our respect and fear? Initially, it won't. But over time, we will start considering the guard an important figure and will create a Council to protect our civil rights from this scoundrel in a cap.

If our attitude towards our government was sober and adequate, President Putin should have apologized to this Council for the behavior of the prosecutor, his own subordinate. Ideally, he should have requested his resignation due to his inability to fully perform his duties and serve us faithfully and truthfully.

Instead, with his "completely insane" remark, Putin emphasized who here is the authority and to whom one should turn for justice. Not to dismiss the authority as incapable, but to seek justice from them, hoping for mercy. He emphasized whose hands hold the power and who exactly will decide when, where, and how justice will be served.

Are we not ashamed to create these human rights councils and ask for justice from those whom we should demand it from?

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:04:02 +0300.