A few days ago, a Russian Ministry of Defense plane crashed off the coast of Sochi while en route from Moscow to Syria. Among the passengers on board were 64 members of the Alexandrov Ensemble, an academic song and dance group, who were scheduled to perform a concert for Russian military personnel in Aleppo. Whether the plane crashed on its own or was aided, we are unlikely to find out. What is interesting, however, is our reaction to this event "behind enemy lines."

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

Indeed, what can I hide, for many Ukrainians, Russia has turned from a good neighbor into an aggressor and an enemy over the past two years. And all because Russia, being wicked, took away Crimea from us, unleashed a war in our Donbass, and in general, does not let us live peacefully. And if Russia is an enemy, then any of its troubles are our joy, right?

I found a decent compilation of similar opinions: let them "lie there at the bottom and think about the innocent Syrian children" they were bombing to help; it's a shame that the "full Kremlin gang" was not on board; we don't pity them, as they were "flying to carry out semi-military missions and support those who commit genocide," and so on.

This hysterical patriotism surrounding the tragedy is just another confirmation that we do not understand the nature of this war, and all modern wars in general. We see enemies in those who are not, and vice versa. And we do this out of foolishness.

Not military pilots, enemies of the human race, nor unfortunate singers from a crashed airplane. Not an ensemble with hymns in honor of the Russian-Crimean homeland, and not even Putin. Not terrorists and not corrupt officials. They are all our misfortunes, our sorrow, and our problem, but they are not the cause. They are merely the consequence, not the root cause.

The root cause is us, in front of television screens.

On one territory, people were seated in front of screens telling them that they are independent and called Ukraine. Slightly further north, viewers of the same televisions are told that they are a great empire and called Russia. Both believe it. Some celebrate victories in Crimea, Chechnya, and Syria. Others exude malicious joy when a plane with an ensemble falls into the sea.

The problem is that neither side understands that their patriotism and belief in victory are the guarantee of prosperity for those who wage war, plunder the treasury, and confidently lead the gradually stupider citizens of both territories into slavery.

Viewer, think about who benefits from your hatred? Who needs you to be ignorant and fanatical patriot? Who are you trying to protect your homeland from, the same people like you, stolen and deceived? Who benefits from your anger being unleashed on deceased artists?

And why don't you go after the judge or prosecutor whom you can encounter on the streets of your city every day, driving in Lexuses and Mercedes? You, as a viewer, do not wish death upon them. But why?

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:06:55 +0300.