The first reason is apparently the most common populism. For example, as you may remember, four years ago in Newtown, 20 children and seven adults died. Obama then burst into tears in the White House and blamed the Bushmaster automatic rifle for everything. There was no one else to blame, as the 20-year-old shooter took his own life right there at the school immediately after the operation ended.

The rifle and those who sell it are to blame. We need to fight against them, and we have enough strength for that. Using such an appeal, it is undoubtedly easy to rally around oneself many sentimental Americans. No wonder, children have died. It doesn't matter to us how many of them survived because their parents had these very Bushmasters at home. We see tears in the president's eyes and understand that something needs to be done, and done immediately. Children's lives are at stake. Obama and the Democrats undoubtedly gained a lot of points by acting against logic but very popularly.

But it's just populism. A simple speculation on the feelings of the average citizen. It's forgivable, as all politicians act this way, it's their job.

I think the main reason is deeper.

The main threat to developed fears, and therefore to global corporations, and therefore to the entire global elite, is us - the citizens of these countries. America is not afraid of wars with China, not of Putin at NATO borders, and not of nuclear tests by Kim Jong Un. America, as well as Europe, Russia, and of course Ukraine, are afraid of revolutions on their territories.

Whatever devastating wars may happen in the future between countries, the damage caused by them will be insignificant compared to the damage from future riots and uprisings. We are talking about the damage to governments, corporations, and the ruling elite. In any war, they will be in the rear, but in any revolution, they will be on the front lines. It is vital for them to protect themselves... from their own people.

The Bushmaster automatic rifle instantly transforms a law-abiding citizen into the master of their own land. Even without firing a single shot in their entire life, they are no longer afraid. And it's not just about fear of criminals, although that is also important. First and foremost, they are not afraid of their own government.

So the government is afraid of him. It is difficult to manipulate the people when they have weapons in their hands. It is difficult to impose one's will on them. It is difficult not to take them into account.

By depriving the people of their weapons and tightening control over their storage and carrying, the government solves its main task - self-preservation. Undoubtedly, in the short term, it is also beneficial for us, the people - we have stability and absence of disorder. However, in the long term, we are experiencing an increasingly growing gap between the interests of the ruling classes and the people.

But isn't it better to govern a people who can take to the streets with rifles at any moment and express their protest, rather than a people who have neither rifles, nor courage, nor their own opinion?

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo on 2023-08-16 09:07:46 +0300.