Two days ago, the Russian ambassador was killed in Turkey, and yesterday in Berlin, a truck drove into a crowd of people. It is unpleasant and painful to see how innocent people are being killed by terrorists all over the world: Nice, Baghdad, Ataturk Airport, Yemen, Brussels, Paris. Terrorism, according to Shoigu, is the "main threat to humanity," which, according to Obama, "will remain in the world for a long time." I have a different opinion. I do not consider the Russian ambassador in Turkey, pedestrians in Berlin, and tourists in Paris as innocent people.

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

A terrorist is a villain, a killer, a subhuman, a maniac, a psychopath. All he wants is blood. And not just any blood, but the blood of unarmed people. These scoundrels do not attack military bases, they do not kill soldiers of the enemy army, they do not fight fair with their heads held high. They shoot from behind corners, killing innocent civilians in squares and shopping centers. They kill those who have no connection to any military conflicts.

They kill children and pensioners. They have no conscience or morality. They are the embodiment of evil. They are the main threat to humanity, more terrifying than global warming and the Bennu asteroid. We will not negotiate with them about anything; we will only destroy them. One by one. Just like we destroyed McVeigh, Basayev, bin Laden, and many others.

Так?

А вот нет, не так.

Давайте разберемся, без эмоций.

Yes, we feel sorry for the victims of terrorist attacks. We are scared to imagine ourselves in their place. We are filled with hatred towards those who leave bombs in trash cans at bus stops. We consider them enemies. However, let's try to put ourselves in their shoes.

For example, instead of 22-year-old Mevlut Mert Altintas, who killed Andrey Karlov at the Ankara Center for Contemporary Art two days ago during the opening of a photo exhibition. Judging by his last words, he did it as a protest against Russia's actions in Syria and, in particular, in Aleppo. We do not know all the details, but it is highly likely that he was not satisfied with the fact that planes with the Russian flag were bombing his city.

What would you do if your city was being bombed, for example by French planes? Most likely, nothing. You would gather your belongings and move to a refugee camp to ask for water, food, and mercy. You would not get on a train and go to Paris to blow up the Paris metro. You would not kill children and elderly people on the streets of Marseille and Nice. You would not carry a bomb into the Louvre, and you would not drive a stolen truck into pedestrians at Place de la Concorde.

А почему?

Because they are peaceful and innocent inhabitants, right?

And who paid for the bombing of your city? Whose money fueled the planes? Who, through a general vote, chose the government that made the decision to create weapons to destroy your home? Who were the silent majority, whose indifference allowed the government and army to carry out military actions on your territory?

Именно эти "мирные" жители.

Citizens of a country engaged in war cannot call themselves peaceful and blameless. It is they who are primarily responsible for this war. Neither soldiers, nor Putin, nor Obama, nor weapon creators bear as much responsibility for modern wars as we do.

Please note, I neither support nor criticize Russia's actions in Syria. I do not know all the motives behind this war and only have knowledge of the situation through the news. I'm talking about something completely different. I want us to understand that for every bomb dropped on Aleppo from Russian planes, every holder of a Russian passport bears responsibility. And not only Russian planes or Russian passport holders.

We cannot call ourselves peaceful and blameless as long as there is a war happening somewhere on the planet. The fact that we stand aside does not mean that we are not involved.

Modern wars are fought for various reasons, from economic to religious, but behind these reasons, we stand, you and I. It is us who want war in Syria. We need it. We finance it. We are its main sponsors and instigators. We vote, we drink Coca-Cola, we watch the news and commercials&mdash;we remain silent and pay.

Terrorism is nothing but suddenly flying fragments that scare us a lot. We are frightened, but let's not forget who is to blame for it all.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:05:22 +0300.