Yesterday it became known about the nationalization of PrivatBank. What exactly this word means in this context, I find it difficult to judge. One thing is clear, Igor Kolomoisky and his friends no longer own it. I think we have witnessed, perhaps, the largest raid seizure in the history of Ukraine.

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

Of course, it is offensive for Kolomoisky, who, whether through truths or falsehoods, built the largest bank in the country, through which a significant part of the economy operates. In my opinion, it is the most high-quality and modern bank in the country, having survived all the crises.

On the other hand, we understand that one of the main ideologists of raiding methods has encountered them as a victim. One of the leading experts in raiding had his own main enterprise taken away from him. Interestingly, it was not a Soviet-era state-owned coal mine or machine-building plant that he had previously taken from someone else, but a bank that he had built from scratch.

Как так случилось?

I think Kolomoisky has lost his grip. He is not keeping up with the times. He has fallen behind in his own life in Geneva. He is not keeping his finger on the pulse.

Poroshenko and Groysman are demonstrating raiding of a new level, new quality, and new scale, where participants, in addition to corrupt judges, police officers, notaries, officers of the Security Service, and ministers, include the people themselves. We are with you.

We are informed about the "need to ensure economic stability," about "support for international organizations," about "guaranteeing the inviolability and integrity of PrivatBank's clients' deposits." And this is being said by the democratically elected president, not some greedy businessman. Poroshenko speaks on behalf of the people, and the people silently support and hope for the inviolability of their deposits.

In all media, we are informed that the initiator of the nationalization of PrivatBank was Kolomoisky himself, effectively acknowledging the bank's instability and the impossibility of independently recovering from the crisis. The government merely complied with his request.

The entire country is helping the raiders. Ukraine has never seen anything like this before.

I think it was not PrivatBank that was taken away from Kolomoisky. It was a little more of our freedom and dignity that was taken away, for which we fought so passionately on the barricades several years ago. Once again, we were shown that we are an electorate with inviolable deposits.

Never mind Kolomoisky, he will somehow get away with it. Aren't you offended on behalf of all of us?

By the way, I think that in the near future the same fate awaits MAU. The airline will be taken over and immediately restore air communication with Russia, which was closed, as I understand it, precisely with the aim of bankrupting MAU and subsequently changing the owner.

Igor Valeryevich, these are your methods, please don't take offense.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:04:49 +0300.