Yesterday, the Pechersky District Court of Kyiv imposed a measure of restraint in the form of arrest for Kurchenko. On the third attempt. It's not about him, I'm interested in something else. There have been several high-profile cases in the past few post-revolutionary years, such as Korban or Kernes: bribery was always involved, and somehow the letter of the law ended up on the side of these guys. Is this a good thing?

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

It is no secret that the Ukrainian judicial system is completely corrupt. In practice, this means that the police, prosecution, and courts work for those who pay, rather than those who are right. This system has formed over the past few decades. It did not form on its own. It was aided in adopting modern forms by these corrupt individuals, such as Korban and Kernes, who are now facing the "just anger" of the people dissatisfied with this situation.

I'm joking. There is definitely no anger from the people here, it's just that the balance of power has shifted, and different criminals have come into power who settle scores and seize property.

However, the public's reaction to the lawyers' statements is interesting. For example, here is what Kurchenko's lawyer stated: "This case was transferred for consideration with violations of territorial jurisdiction." Here is what Korban's defense said: "The majority of law enforcement actions were carried out with an abuse of official powers." And this is how Kernesa's defense justifies him: "They improperly documented the documents."

It seems like the criticisms are fair. If guilt is not proven, if there is insufficient evidence, if the investigation violated procedures, then these people are innocent, right?

Нет, не так.

Let's not forget that both the court, the investigation, and the police are services created by the people and for the benefit of the people. They are not abstract enforcers of ultimate justice, but rather concrete tools for dealing with those who disrupt our peace. If someone steals your wallet and you catch the thief red-handed, you won't care at all about the evidence of their innocence they may present, the illnesses they may refer to, or the recusals they may demand from judges. You will try to take matters into your own hands right there.

This is exactly what Gleb Zheglov called for in the famous episode with the wallet, as a retribution for a crime, even if it bypasses the law.

Perhaps he was right? Think about whether we should follow the letter of the law when it comes to national-scale corrupt officials who have not only been robbing us for many years but have also built a system in which raiding, bribing judges, and a corrupt prosecution have become the norm. Should we even bother to prosecute them? Maybe we need swift retribution instead of hours-long hearings with volumes of documentation. Maybe Zhiglov was right?

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:07:36 +0300.