Recently, I expressed my opposition to the forced Ukrainization and displacement of Russian culture in Ukraine, which resulted in a lot of negative comments from readers, most of which boiled down to one phrase: "If you don't like it, leave." Only a few people were curious about what exactly my call to action was, what constructive suggestions I had. I am glad that there were still those who could see an unspoken call for real actions behind the criticism. Now, I will express it.

The trump card of any Ukrainian government, starting from 1991, has been and remains the dire situation of Ukraine as a result of its oppression by the Russian Empire and later the USSR. It is difficult to argue with this, as an empire exists to oppress its subordinate territories. Ukraine, just like Poland, Finland, and the Caucasus, was such a territory for many years. It is natural that the development of Ukrainian culture, as well as its suppression, was heavily influenced by administrative subordination to Russia and the Soviet Union, although not always negatively.

Significantly less good literature is written in Ukrainian than in Russian. There are few films made in Ukrainian, and most of them can only be watched out of great love for the Motherland. Moscow has been attracting talented scientists, artists, musicians, writers, and directors for many years. And they willingly moved there, just like Nikolai Gogol did at the age of 19, when he moved from Poltava Governorate to Saint Petersburg. Would "The Inspector General" have been written if he had stayed in his native Nizhyn?

Culture consists of talents. And talent, first and foremost, seeks a fertile ground where it can grow comfortably and be appreciated. At that time, the rich and developed city of St. Petersburg was much more attractive to a young and talented writer than Poltava or Kiev.

Today, Silicon Valley is more attractive to young and talented programmers than Moscow, Kiev, Berlin, or Delhi. People from all over the world flock there with ambitions and a desire to fulfill them. Those who have fewer ambitions or opportunities stay at home. Undoubtedly, the United States benefits from this, while the rest of the world loses out.

For many years, Ukraine has been losing, giving away its talents to Moscow. And it is undoubtedly frustrating. It would probably be great if the novel "Master and Margarita" was written in Ukrainian, as Mikhail Bulgakov was born and raised in Kiev before moving to Moscow at the age of 30. Or if the famous "Black Square" was created in Kiev, where Kazimir Malevich spent his youth before moving to Moscow at the age of 25. Or if, for example, Alexander Vertinsky sang "Lilovy negr" in Ukrainian, as he was originally from Kiev and moved to Moscow at the age of 24.

However, none of this happened.

Ukrainian culture has suffered a lot and fallen far behind, just like many other cultures that contributed to the creation of Russian culture.

Do we want to fix this situation? Absolutely. But doing it through police methods, which the current Ukrainian government is confidently adopting by banning the Russian language, books, and movies, is only setting up those very talents that should bring them up to the Russian level against the Ukrainian language and culture.

Police bans are repulsive, especially in the realm of culture. I believe, and I am not alone, that Ukrainian authorities should act differently. Here is what could be done if we wanted to hear the Ukrainian language more often, not only from politicians, TV presenters, and actors in mayonnaise commercials.

I think the idea is clear. Not to prohibit, but to encourage. Not to block Russian, but to develop Ukrainian. Not to run away from the enemy, but to become stronger ourselves. Then there will be no such rejection as the Ukrainization currently causes.

I really hope that Ukraine will follow the path described above.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo on 2023-08-16 09:18:38 +0300.