Recently it became known that the General Staff of Ukraine intends to call up graduates of military departments aged up to 43 for military service. I happen to fall into this category and could very well receive a draft notice soon. I ask myself - should I go to war?

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

The first thing that is obvious to me is the commercial motive behind this pre-Christmas initiative by the General Staff. Graduates of military departments, especially those around forty years old, are the most affluent citizens. Therefore, they will be more willing to bribe their way out of conscription compared to other categories of people who were previously called up for service. They will pay the military enlistment office, who will in turn pay their superiors, and ultimately the funds will go to the General Staff.

The second thought that comes to mind is: why not spit on these corrupt officials in uniform and go defend the Motherland, as I was taught in elementary school through the examples of Lenya Golikov, Valya Kotik, and Zinaida Portnova? Maybe it's time for my own heroic act? Perhaps my death by a random mine somewhere under a concrete fence, shoulder to shoulder with drunken brothers in arms, will help my country, still called Ukraine, for now.

The third thought is simpler than the first two: you need to save $600 and continue with your own business.

But there is also a fourth thought, and it is the most interesting one: should I join the army to personally talk to those who agreed to fight in the ATO, valuing their lives and health at less than $600. I truly don't understand what drives these people. I'm not judging their choice, I'm interested in understanding - what is it like to give your life to the General Staff instead of giving them $600.

It is hard to believe that the conscripts simply couldn't find the money. There is always something that can be sold. In the end, they could even rob their neighbor's apartment to avoid going to die. However, they don't do that. What is the reason? Patriotism? Propaganda? Stupidity? Belief in the future of Ukraine? Herd instinct? Adrenaline rush? Hopelessness?

А может быть всего понемногу?

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:07:52 +0300.