Ukraine remains one of the countries with the highest level of corruption in the world. On one hand, it's beneficial when you can steal and bribe your way out. On the other hand, it's sad to realize that Ukrainians still remain one of the most ignorant nations on the planet, unable to organize the work of their officials and police in a way that prevents theft. How can we become smarter? Are there any proven methods?

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

According to Robert Klitgaard, known for his research on the nature of this phenomenon, "corruption is greed plus opportunity minus control." From this formula, it follows that in order to eradicate corruption, one needs to a) reduce the opportunities for officials and b) strengthen control over them. However, it is not possible to simply reduce greed due to human nature - we always want more.

So, the first thing is the delegation of authority to officials, and there are many ways to do it. For example, in Georgia during Saakashvili's time, the "one-stop principle" was introduced (also used in other countries) to reduce the number of procedures for obtaining government documents, and therefore reduce the number of bribes they receive.

The second part of the formula requires increased control over officials, which primarily involves tightening punishments and taking direct punitive actions. For example, Hong Kong is known for its idea of "presumption of guilt" for officials, where each of them is considered a thief until proven otherwise. The experience of Singapore is also illustrative, where under the leadership of Lee Kuan Yew, anti-corruption legislation was tightened to the extent that, for example, even the promise of a bribe was considered a bribe. And China is ahead of everyone - in the last ten years, they have executed over 10,000 officials.

Analyzing the situation in Ukraine, a few years ago Saakashvili stated that the current state system is one that "does not allow not to steal." This formulation remarkably accurately combines all three components of the formula described above: 1) officials' salaries are meager, 2) there are many opportunities to steal, and 3) there is little control. Only the lazy and foolish would not steal.

Everything seems logical in this formula, and the solution is obvious both for Ukraine and any other country: 1) increase salaries for officials, 2) reduce their number and simplify the procedures they control, and finally 3) regularly shoot offenders. However, there is another important aspect that many people pay attention to - people's attitude towards corruption. Those people who support officials and from whose pockets they steal.

Kaha Bendukidze, drawing analogies between cargo cults of Papua New Guinea and the consciousness of contemporary residents of post-Soviet territories, stated that "if we want to be mature societies, we need to achieve our own rules of life, rather than receive them as manna from heaven." He then added that "to fight corruption, we need to strongly desire it." The main idea is that only we, together, can achieve new rules of life without corruption if we want to and strive for it.

Vitaliy Portnikov, in his analysis of the issues of combating corruption in Ukraine, writes that the success of this fight "may be linked not to government measures, not to repression, not to punishments, but to societal morality," referring to the urgent need for changes in our consciousness before any anti-corruption measures can take effect.

In my deep conviction, the first step in this fight should be a change in our attitude towards the wealth of officials. Most often, it evokes envy in us, when it should evoke anger. We must understand that their expensive cars are primarily a sign of our own foolishness. They are driving stolen vehicles on our own streets, and yet we look on and do nothing.

Moreover, we need to change our attitude towards officials in general. It is important to understand that they are our service staff, living off our money. We are forced to keep them around to organize our lives and, frankly speaking, to take out the trash and clean the roads. The head of the regional tax office or the deputy head of customs should be much less significant to us than, for example, the head chef or the supermarket director.

The new rules, which Kaha Bendukidze spoke about, will consist precisely in such a transformation of the system: the reverent and fearful attitude towards officials will be replaced by a calm and utilitarian one. After this, all other changes will occur naturally, and corruption will turn from a universal disaster into a focal problem, as in developed countries.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:09:59 +0300.