I recently read about Ukrainian startups being invited to participate in StartupGrind, an exhibition in California. And I wondered, how will the organizers of this Ukrainian section determine which startups are Ukrainian and which are not? I have a few interesting ideas and I would like to share them with you.

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

First, I think it's worth checking the passport. It should be issued by one of the local police departments in Ukraine. It is important to pay attention to the date of issue. If it is from the Simferopol or Luhansk districts and the passport was issued last year, then what kind of Ukraine is it and what kind of Ukrainian startup entrepreneur is it, right? We don't need such startup entrepreneurs, they belong in a different section.

Special attention should be paid to the place of birth in the passport. Even if the passport is issued by Ukraine, the place of birth could be, for example, St. Petersburg. Or, even worse, Leningrad. Such entrepreneurs should be categorically excluded from the Ukrainian section.

Special attention should be paid to the "nationality" column, where it should clearly state "Ukrainian" for males or "Ukrainian" for females. No "Belarusian," "Tatar," or, God forbid, "Russian." This is a Ukrainian section, not any other!

Next, it is necessary to check the mother's last name. If it is Goltsman or Katsenelenbogen, then it is clear that this startup founder cannot be called Ukrainian. They should be placed in a different section of the exhibition, according to their nationality.

However, if the "nationality" column matches and the parents' surnames do not raise any suspicions, it is worth carefully examining the appearance of the startup founder: it can speak for itself. It will be easy to determine and eliminate a Kazakh, an Indian, or, let's say, a black person, regardless of how much they try to hide their nationality behind their passport data. It will be more difficult with Jews, Russians, or, let's say, Estonians. Distinguishing them will be harder, but still possible, for example, based on external anthropometric characteristics.

It would also be useful to give them a test on their knowledge of the Ukrainian language and literature. A Ukrainian startup developer must know and love Ostap Vishnya, Mikhail Kotsyubinsky, and Marko Vovchok. It goes without saying that they should be fluent in speaking Ukrainian.

It is also necessary to pay attention to the connections that the startup founder has with Russia. It is absolutely obvious that Ukrainian startups are not Russian startups. There is a huge difference between them, and we must be vigilant. The easiest way is to demand a certificate confirming the absence of relatives in Russia and its occupied territories.

And finally, it is necessary to conduct a detailed interview with each startup entrepreneur to determine their political views and their stance on the issue of the annexation of Crimea, the unity of Ukraine, the role of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists - Ukrainian Insurgent Army in World War II, and Vladimir Putin as the main villain of modern times. We must not allow any unreliable elements to appear in the Ukrainian section at such a major California conference.

Do you have any ideas on how to help the organizers of the Ukrainian section find those who are truly deserving of the proud title "Ukrainian startuppers"?

And now let's get serious. Well, who are Ukrainians really? Those who have been issued a passport or those who speak the Shevchenko language? Is it a nationality or citizenship? And why do we need to divide people into Ukrainians, Russians, Tatars, and Jews at all? Who do you think benefits from this division?

I will answer. It benefits those who speculate on one of the strongest human emotions - hatred. The conference organizers, as well as most politicians, play the card of xenophobia, which is always a trump card when dealing with stupidity: we are Ukrainians and it is important.

We are not like them: we have our own flag, our own anthem, our own president, our own pride, our own history, and our own style of mustaches. And we will go to the exhibition specifically to our Ukrainian section. We will not go to the section for medical startups, or successful startups, or startups with founders under 30. No, our section is the section for startups with Ukrainian passports and yellow-blue T-shirts.

It would be funny if it wasn't so sad.

Maybe it's time to stop being proud of Ukraine? Maybe it's time to start being proud of products, technologies, knowledge, achievements, regardless of where and by whom they were created? Agree, it doesn't matter to you what color passport Albert Einstein had or what nationality Henry Ford was. It doesn't matter to you where Niels Bohr, Nikola Tesla, or Norbert Wiener were born, lived, or what language they spoke. So why should Ukrainian startups be important to us now?

Ukraine, like any other country, is just a territory on a map, temporarily enclosed by a fence with gates for customs control. As you can see, the shape of this territory has changed significantly in the last few years. Over the next 10-20 years, it will change even more, in one direction or another. Whether it becomes larger or smaller, I don't know, and it doesn't really matter. It's not about the territory or the name, but about us. It's about what we do, write, create, build, and invent.

Stop building Ukrainian startups. Let's build successful ones.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:08:34 +0300.