[People](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/People), [nation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nation), [ethnicity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethnicity), [ethnic group](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethnic_group). These and similar terms refer to groups of people who identify themselves based on various common characteristics, such as language, customs, ideology, or religion. In any case, as [Lev Gumilev noted](https://sociology.mephi.ru/docs/sociologia/html/gumilev_etnogenez_bromley.html), the unchanging unifying message for them is: "we are such-and-such, and all others are different".

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

According to Vakhushti Parcvenia, the formation and existence of different nations is an objective consequence of the process of socialization. In other words, for a person to survive, as a "social being," it is necessary to feel a sense of belonging to a group, which the person will create, even if it is in an empty space.

Thus, finding in oneself and in one's environment signs of differentiation from others and then elevating these signs to the level of national identity is a constructive process that contributes to the individual's survival.

However, a natural consequence of the formation of a people and a nation is nationalism - the "measles of humanity," in the words of Albert Einstein. The meaning of this characterization is that it is a childhood disease that humanity, like a child, must overcome in the early stages of its development, when the key to the success of a tribe, city, or state lies in the timely and physical destruction or enslavement of the surrounding tribes, cities, and states. In these conditions, nationalism, and even better, open chauvinism and xenophobia, unite the population and help it survive.

Nationalism is necessary and very useful in the presence of an external threat. For example, Ivan Ilyin equated nationalism with the "instinct of national self-preservation" and believed that this instinct is "a correct and justified state." It is a kind of immunity for a social group, protecting it from destruction or absorption by another larger and more stable group. In simpler terms, it is important for us to cultivate in ourselves and our children a hatred for foreigners if we want our children to survive.

There are other opinions, for example, Andrei Konchalovsky believes that "nationalism in its constructive forms is, above all, serving your own people, not destroying other nations in the name of your own." This is a view through rose-colored glasses. As shown above, the very concept of dividing the population into nations and nationalities was born with exclusively military purposes: for identifying one's own and developing a sense of animosity towards others. Everywhere rhetoric of "us versus them" is used, it is about war. When the second part of this pair is removed and only a call to "serve your own people" is made, as Konchalovsky did, it smells of nothing but hypocrisy.

Now let's pay attention to an interesting situation regarding the estimation of the total population of peoples and nations on the planet. According to different opinions, currently there are anywhere from 800 to 2000 of them in the world. Wikipedia lists only a few hundred. In other sources, I found even more uncertain figures: from several hundred to several thousand. Why is there no precise list of them, considering that we are talking about groups consisting of tens of thousands of people or more? Where does this inaccuracy come from?

<aside class="quote"> People are a union of many individuals, connected by agreement on matters of rights and common interests. <span>Cicero</span> </aside>

It's simple, mainly thanks to technological progress, the borders between nations are blurring and disappearing: we no longer know who is who.

The defining trends on the ethnic map of our planet at the moment are consolidation and assimilation. In simpler terms, it is becoming increasingly difficult to determine who among us is Russian, Ukrainian, Jewish, Tatar, or African American. Surprisingly, many scientists even believe that the term "race" in relation to humans has lost its scientific relevance. In other words, it is becoming more challenging to objectively determine the nationality of a specific inhabitant of our planet, and there is less and less real necessity for it.

We are born in the USSR to a Ukrainian mother and a Belarusian father; we live in Berlin; we speak English in the office, Russian with our wife, German with our children, and Turkish in the supermarket; we believe in Jesus Christ, don't celebrate Easter, but celebrate Soviet Army Day; we wear Chinese jeans; we love Italian cuisine and French comedies. What nationality are we? What nationality will our children be, who will speak Russian with a strong German accent only when asked about it? None.

It is absolutely obvious that such signs of division by nations as place of birth, language, cultural traditions, religious beliefs, as well as skull shape and eye shape, are losing their relevance. Moreover, the use of these outdated signs, according to Parcavania, can only indicate the "narrow-mindedness and backwardness" of the individuals who use them.

However, the desire to gather in groups and identify oneself through belonging to them has not disappeared. As we have seen above, it is innate and vital. In other words, nationalism, chauvinism, and xenophobia are unerasable because they are natural. The question is only how those who are not "backward and narrow-minded" will identify the "other".

The nationalism of the future, if civilization continues to develop rather than degrade, will divide people into groups and communities based on such criteria as professional interests (for example, artists, programmers, writers, fashion designers), beliefs (such as vegetarians, childfree individuals, downsizers), sports (such as bodybuilders, snowboarders, cyclists), music, and others. These groups and communities are the "nations of the future."

These new nations are already forming, if one observes the development of communities, for example on Facebook. Alongside politicized groups dedicated to hatred towards "vatniks" or "Ukies", groups of vegetarians or lovers of good cinema are equally, and often significantly, more popular.

The more developed a person is, the more educated and oriented towards self-development, the less significant outdated categories of national division are for them. However, their desire to identify themselves through belonging to a group and contrasting themselves with "others" does not disappear. It is realized through the formation of new nations and peoples that have nothing in common with Ukrainians, Russians, Chinese, or Jews. Now they are called "coffee lovers," "theater actors," "travel blogger tourists," and "rebirth adepts."

Sooner or later, the Ukrainian nation will cease to exist, just like the Georgian, Tatar, Spanish, or Russian nations. The Ukrainian language, literature, music, cuisine, rituals, and traditions will remain, but the concept of the "Ukrainian people" will no longer exist. This notion will simply become obsolete.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:10:50 +0300.