Last week, the Verkhovna Rada approved the budget for 2017 proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. A few days later, on NewsOne, Mustafa Nayem analyzed this event and praised the Cabinet for its timeliness, but called the final stage a farce because, in his opinion, opposition forces received bribes in exchange for supporting the government. I, on the other hand, consider Nayem's speech a farce.

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

Here's the translation:

I have a metaphor in mind. Imagine that we are preparing a gymnast for a competition. Everything would be fine, but he often falls off the bars. Among other issues, he has a brain tumor.

We are aware of this condition, however, he has other difficulties as well. Firstly, we suspect that he has a tight undershirt that restricts his movement: we are trying to find a better-fitting one. Secondly, it appears that he has weak forearm muscles: it may be beneficial to include more exercises targeting this muscle group in his training program. Thirdly, it seems that he has excess weight: losing a few kilograms would be beneficial.

So, we have four problems: tight form, weak muscles, excess weight, and a brain tumor.

Of course, we understand that he most likely regularly falls on the mats because he loses consciousness, and he is not shown the parallel bars, but rather intensive chemotherapy with a very low chance of survival at all. We are aware of this, but there are also other problems, such as his tight physique and excess weight. Shouldn't we address those too?

Doesn't it sound absurd? What does excess weight and a tight fit have to do with it when the athlete's life is at stake? Without solving the main problem, there is no point in even mentioning the others.

The same thing is happening in Ukraine right now. The entire state apparatus of this country is deeply affected by corruption. Ukraine is ranked 130th in a well-known rating, with only twenty-something countries worse off than us, including Congo, Uganda, Syria, Iraq, and Somalia. Corruption is a malignant tumor that prevents our country from getting back on its feet.

What does the budget have to do with this? What difference does it make if it was adopted on time or with a delay? What will change, whether it is of high quality or contains errors? What role does this document play in a country where no institutions of power are functioning at all?

Mustafa, are you suggesting that we fight against the excessive weight of an athlete with a brain tumor? Either you don't understand the situation or you're being paid the same way as the opposition members you accuse.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:07:15 +0300.