"To be free, one must be slaves to the law" - the meaning of this famous statement by Mark Tullius Cicero is proposed to be explored by generations of high school graduates in literature exams. It is expected that by the time they reach adulthood, students should understand that only a society that follows the rules and respects accepted laws will survive and thrive. The only alternative to the "dictatorship of the law" according to the school program is chaos, in which society inevitably deteriorates and collapses.

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

It sounds logical, however, not everything is so clear-cut. Let's think about it, and two interesting facts will help us:

Firstly, in the first century BCE in the Roman Empire, slavery was legalized. According to Wikipedia, Marcus Tullius, being "one of the most prominent and consistent supporters of preserving the republican system," owned personal slaves whom he treated as his property strictly in accordance with the laws he so respected. Furthermore, the slave revolt led by Spartacus was completely suppressed just a few years before Cicero delivered his famous phrase during his defense speech in court.

Secondly, two decades later, after the troops of the Second Triumvirate occupied Rome, Cicero's name was included in the proscription lists of "enemies of the people", and he was caught not far from his Greek villa and beheaded. This was done strictly in accordance with the very law that Marcus Tullius revered and called us to be slaves to.

In both cases, we see that being a slave, even to such a respected "master" as the law, is not the most rational way to dispose of one's life. Both Spartacus, as a slave, and the honorable Roman Cicero perished at the hands of those who acted within the confines of the law. The only difference being that Spartacus resisted.

I was inspired to write this article by the recent story of Vladimir Olentsevich, who attempted to kill Anna Turchinova, the wife of Alexander Turchinov, the Secretary of the National Security and Defense Council. The attempt failed, and Vladimir will spend the next eight years of his life in prison.

What has this person achieved? What did he want to achieve? He is a lawyer who came from Donetsk, where he previously sought justice through legal means. Apparently, he was not successful, and he took a knife in his hands.

Most of us do not act this way, preferring to remain slaves to the law until the end, like Cicero, who "stretched out his neck to meet the sword" according to Plutarch.

Drunk employees of the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) run over people at pedestrian crossings - we observe, condemn, and walk away. A judge kills people in a car accident and continues to work as a judge - we read about it in the news and turn the page. Billions are stolen from our budget - we finish our coffee, envy the corrupt officials, and go to work.

We don't take a knife in our hands and don't go to settle scores with those who, in the name of the law and under its cover, turn us into slaves.

А может быть зря?

Should Cicero have learned something from Spartacus? Maybe we can learn something from Vladimir Olentsevich too? Perhaps it is only worth being slaves to the law to a certain extent? Or perhaps instead of being slaves to the law, we should become slaves to common sense? Or perhaps we should forget about slavery altogether and learn to be masters of our own lives, who know how and want to protect our freedom, even from the law?

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:12:24 +0300.