I will tell the whole story, and you can decide whose side you are on. I often speak at IT conferences. Usually, I don't care who organizes them, whose money is involved, or how much they make from it. What matters to me is who comes to listen to me and whether they are satisfied with what I have to say. But this time, things got more complicated, and I declined to speak at two conferences in my hometown.

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

A few weeks ago, I was invited to speak at the Run-IT IT conference in Dnipro. After looking at their schedule, I asked which session and time slot they wanted to assign me to. After receiving a response, I inquired about who would be speaking at the conference opening. Opening the conference is always a prestigious mission, and they invite those who have earned the trust of the entire audience. The answer was Yanyk Merilo (Deputy Mayor of Dnipro).

I asked what valuable contribution the deputy mayor had made to the IT industry in order to open a conference where programmers would be speaking. The response was, and I quote: "We were strongly recommended to do so." I shrugged and declined to speak.

I became curious whether the same thing would happen at another Dnieper conference ITEM, where my report had already been accepted. I asked the organizers from afar, "Won't there be any officials at the conference?" And I received the answer, "No, of course not, only Yanika will speak at the opening."

I asked again what exactly she did for IT. What did she do to deserve the honor of opening the conference, other than her well-known invitation to "enter the wonderful world of IT"? The answer was, and I quote: "If we don't make friends with the city authorities, we'll be banned." I shrugged again. So that's how things are with IT and the city authorities in Dnipro, it turns out.

Programmers pay money to come and listen to me and several dozen of my colleagues who create software products, write books, and develop new technologies. Meanwhile, officials from the City Council, led by Filatov, using their administrative resources, put pressure on the organizers, forcing them to prominently feature their own people among the speakers. As a result, people like Merilo, who contribute absolutely nothing to the IT industry, earn themselves a reputation: later on, she can say that she was listed as one of the main speakers at the most important IT conferences in the country, which means she has a direct connection to the industry.

Undoubtedly, the City Council not only puts pressure on the organizers but also offers something in return. Both conferences explained to me in conversation, and I quote: "The City Council helps us negotiate venues for the conference." By "helps negotiate," it is obviously also necessary to understand some administrative pressure on the owners of these venues in order to reduce the rental price of the halls. In other words, both ITEM and Run-IT not only do not resist this corruption but also indulge in it.

So, apparently, the City Council pays for these two conferences. Not with money, of course, but with the services that a corrupt government usually uses to reward its cronies.

In that case, I have a fair question - why should we, as presenters, advertise the City Council members for free? Why would I spend a full working day helping someone who has nothing to do with my industry become a respected figure in it, and not receive anything in return? Meanwhile, ITEM and Run-IT will make money.

This is, at the very least, unfair.

I proposed ITEM three options for resolving this situation.

The first option is correct and honest: to refuse the City Council. However, there will likely be problems with the venue - its cost will increase. I suggested to the organizers, let's make this situation public. Let's bring this issue to all the programmers attending the conference. Let's tell them that we are against corruption, and therefore we need to add another $10 to the ticket price. We don't want to dance to the tune of criminals from the City Council, and the conference will be opened by those who truly have weight in the IT industry. I was ready to help with this. ITEM refused, arguing: "You can play fair when you have nothing to lose."

Second option: pay me for the work. Since you receive something from the City Council for advertising their people, share it with the speakers. Since this event is aimed at promoting Yanika Merilo, I want her to pay me for my work. ITEM refused.

Option three: remove me from the conference speakers. ITEM agreed.

So, I won't be speaking at ITEM this year, even though I was planning to and had prepared an interesting presentation.

In summary, I suggest that all readers of this article, who are mostly, I am sure, people from the IT industry, consider whether it is worth attending the conferences that our corrupt government uses for their own purposes. I propose that both speakers and attendees boycott such conferences.

This will be a real response to the corruption that is happening in the country.

Не на словах, а на деле.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:11:57 +0300.