During the inauguration of the 45th President of the United States, Donald Trump, protesters took to the streets of Washington. 217 of them were arrested. They carried signs but ended up overturning trash bins, breaking windows, and setting cars on fire. Many of them were dressed in black and acted somewhat organized. Regardless of our opinions on Trump and his policies, the explosions and fires, people wearing masks, and the sound of police sirens are frightening. We rely on the reliability of the police. However, there is also a negative side to this phenomenon.

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

Since the time of Spartacus, uprisings against authority have been happening regularly on this planet. The goal is always the same - freedom. The motives are always different. For example, economic motives - an increase in taxes preceding the rebellion of Stepan Razin (although there are doubts); political motives, as in the Romanian revolution - the communist regime was replaced by pro-Western democracy; ethnic and national motives, as in Nagorno-Karabakh or Kosovo; and there are also purely forceful motives, as in the October Revolution - the revolution was necessary for the Bolshevik party, and they carried it out.

In Latynina's concise expression, "there are far more revolutions in the world than democracies." Indeed, the majority of uprisings do not lead to an improvement in the lives of those for whom they are fought. Although new people come to power, the systems remain largely unchanged. The recent Ukrainian revolutions on the Maidan, both the orange and the dignity revolution, are a vivid illustration of this.

And the blame does not lie with rebels, revolutionaries, and terrorists armed with weapons and Molotov cocktails. It is not even the Robespierres who lead and inspire them. We are to blame, the very majority that cannot bring about change with just a change of flag and a declaration of freedom. Remember how Lancelot tried to kill the dragon in the famous film by Mark Zakharov, but it was reborn again because "the best people of the city" demanded it.

Freedom cannot be given to a person if they are not ready to be free. And if they are ready, it is impossible to enslave them. They do not need freedom, as they already have it. Such is the paradox. Nietzsche put it more succinctly: "Revolt is the virtue of the slave."

Therefore, revolutions, uprisings, riots, burning tires, snipers on rooftops, drunken students on piles of rebar, shattered shop windows, and burnt buses - all of this doesn't make sense and won't change anything anyway? Apparently, smart people should respect authority, stay at home, watch TV series, not go to Maidan with pots on their heads, and express their political demands through democratic means, by casting their ballot in the voting urn every few years.

Yes, it is possible. However, think about what the world would be like without Pugachev, Danton, Muraviev, Bakunin, Nechaev, Trotsky, Castro, Dudayev, Saakashvili, and many others who stood up against power, risking their lives above all. Some were defeated by power, some were exterminated, some were able to prevail and in turn become the power to fight against new revolutionaries and revolutions. What is important is not the individual practical achievements of each uprising, although there are many of them, and without them we would not have pensions, weekends, paid vacations, freedom of speech, human rights, equality, or justice. What is important is something else.

It is important that society always maintains a spirit of disobedience towards authority and readiness for rebellion. As Jean Jaurès said, "a revolution is only possible where there is a conscience." It is these partially drunk young people wearing balaclavas, smashing the windows of our beloved restaurants and painting graffiti on the walls of our homes, who represent our conscience. Without them, we would be slaves.

Victor Hugo believed that "revolution is a return from the counterfeit to the real," apparently understanding "the real" as our ability and desire to be free.

Do not rush to condemn the rebels for broken windows and overturned trash bins. Perhaps, in a few hundred years, your great-grandchildren will be grateful to them for their freedom.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:09:05 +0300.