One of the most serious crimes in Ukraine is separatism, according to Article 110 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. The punishment for this crime was tightened by the Verkhovna Rada two years ago, up to life imprisonment. Let's figure out what this crime is, for which the state, represented by the 231st deputy, has decided to punish us so severely.

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

According to the Criminal Code, separatism refers to "intentional actions aimed at changing the borders or state border of Ukraine in violation of the order established by the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as public appeals or dissemination of materials calling for such actions." Does the opinion expressed by Nadiya Savchenko recently on Channel 112, stating that Ukraine needs to give Crimea to Russia in order to regain Donbass, fall under the scope of this article?

To answer this question, we need to understand what is meant by "the procedure for changing the borders or territorial integrity of Ukraine, as established by the Constitution of Ukraine" mentioned in Article 110. I did not find a direct reference to this in the Constitution, however, Article 133 clearly defines the territorial composition of the country, and Article 157 states that "The Constitution of Ukraine cannot be amended if such amendments are aimed at violating the territorial integrity of Ukraine."

In other words, the Constitution states that Crimea is Ukraine and there can be no change in this situation. At the same time, the Criminal Code punishes anyone who tries to change the borders of Ukraine outside of the procedures established by the Constitution, which in turn are not provided for. It's that simple.

It seems that Savchenko did commit a criminal offense by publicly calling for the "surrender" of Crimea. In other words, her speech violated our territorial integrity. Quite foolish, isn't it?

Whether true or not, according to the same article, the former mayor, current mayor, blogger, former city head, and many others have previously been held accountable.

Ukrainian Criminal Code describes many other crimes that, in my opinion, cause significant harm to the residents of Ukraine, however, the punishments for them are more lenient. For example, up to 12 years of imprisonment for bribery (Article 368) or drug smuggling (Article 305).

There is a reasonable question about what is more important to the deputies of the Verkhovna Rada: the integrity of borders or the quality of life of the people living within them. What is better, five small countries with healthy and happy people, or one large country that is one of the world leaders in terms of corruption, alcohol consumption, and heavy drug use?

Of course, it would be desirable to have both: to maintain the borders and to get rid of corruption, and to stop drinking vodka. But in order to do this, it seems to me that corruption and vodka should still be at the top of the priority list, rather than the fight to preserve territories that, as we can see, are not very eager to remain in this country of their own free will.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:09:27 +0300.