Former President of Georgia, Mikheil Saakashvili, became an advisor to Poroshenko in February 2015. Three months later, he received Ukrainian citizenship and the position of head of the Odessa Regional State Administration with a salary of $280 per month from his boss. Six months later, he was stripped of his Georgian citizenship. During the following year, Saakashvili made a series of high-profile corruption accusations, including against Avakov, Yatsenyuk, and Poroshenko himself. In November 2016, he announced his resignation from the Odessa post, and Poroshenko dismissed him, getting rid of both an advisor at once. Yesterday, Saakashvili was deprived of Ukrainian citizenship.

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

What was that? What exactly, over the course of two and a half years, did we witness? An experienced Georgian politician and revolutionary, to whom Georgia owes its unique achievements in recent years, turned out to be an idler and a charlatan, capable only of talking and not doing?

Or is it a personal conflict between two longtime friends that has grown into a political confrontation and the defeat of one of them, who is weaker and speaks Ukrainian poorly?

Ни то, ни другое.

I think the Ukrainian drama of Saakashvili over the past two years can confidently be considered as a failed sabotage. Initially, Mikhail Nikolozovich became one of the accomplices of the system, apparently believing in the good intentions of its leaders. Then, realizing his mistake, he tried to undermine it from within, from a relatively insignificant position in the country - the head of the regional state administration. He failed in this attempt. The system, concerned about its stability, suppressed the sabotage and expelled the saboteur, and most likely will attempt to punish him in the near future.

It is not a conflict with Poroshenko, as Saakashvili himself tries to present the situation in his "farewell" address. No one is settling scores with him. It's not personal. It's just business - corruption, on which the entire country has been built and sustained for the past twenty-five years, is fighting for its survival.

We are part of this system, its building material, its followers, its builders, and devoted fans. It was us who deprived Saakashvili of his citizenship, did not let him finish saying everything he knew about the corruption of Avakov and others, and did not listen to him on those television channels where he could still appear in recent months.

He was getting in our way. He tried to undermine our corrupt stability. He sabotaged our rules and principles of work. We shouted him down and kicked him out. That serves him right.

Get rid of the saboteurs! Glory to Ukraine!

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:13:38 +0300.