A few weeks ago, Sergei Skripal, his daughter, several police officers, and several dozen random passersby were poisoned in London. According to British Prime Minister Theresa May, they were poisoned with the nerve agent "Novichok," which could only have been produced in Russia. This was followed by diplomatic sanctions. It is difficult to predict where this conflict may lead. What is interesting is what actually happened and what the plan was.

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

Although the accusations from Russia voiced by Britain, the EU, and the US lack logic, I suggest considering all versions of what happened.

Version #1: Punishment. The task was to eliminate a former GRU employee, who is now a traitor, as a deterrent to others, which, according to Deputy Director of the European Academy of Intelligence Joseph Fitsanakis, is considered normal practice for intelligence agencies worldwide. It was important to do this in the most demonstrative way possible, to minimize temptation for current operatives. The version seems plausible, however, why was gas used? It is very expensive, dangerous, and will inevitably lead to an international scandal, clearly linking the murder to Russian intelligence services. Wasn't it enough to simply shoot the traitor?

Version #2: Negligence. The task remained the same - elimination, but carefully, without an international scandal. However, the implementation failed. More people were affected than planned, and the main objective was not achieved. It happens. The question remains the same - why was it necessary to use an expensive and very dangerous gas? Why did the executor need to put themselves at risk and jeopardize the success of the entire operation if they could have simply shot the target?

Version #3: Blackening. According to the Russian representative to the UN Security Council, Vasily Nebenzia, this assassination attempt was another reason to "smear and engage in black PR against Russia". In other words, the British themselves poisoned the former spy, his daughter, as well as several dozen of their own citizens, including police officers. It's possible. But why use a gas whose origin is difficult to prove? Why not take such a weapon and apply it in a way that leaves no doubt about the Kremlin's involvement for anyone?

Version #4: Provocation. The Kremlin's plan was to create another reason for escalating tensions between Russia and the Western world. The spy was merely a means, not the goal itself. The true objective was to create an incident in which Moscow's role is evident but difficult to prove. It was another successful twist in the second Cold War. In this case, gas fits perfectly into the overall plan. Its connection to Russia is difficult to prove, its exclusivity ensures maximum news relevance of the event, and it is more interesting than the outdated polonium.

The latest version seems to me the most realistic and, at the same time, the most frightening. It is difficult to give a clear answer as to what exactly Russia and the rest of the world need a new Cold War for. Surely, there is a lot of usefulness for all participants, as both Russia, the US, and Europe enthusiastically engage in this confrontation.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:19:41 +0300.