It is said that during the Cold War, there was a plan called the Dulles Plan, developed by the CIA with the aim of destroying its main opponent on the geopolitical arena - the Soviet Union. Whether this plan actually worked, whether it existed at all, and whether Allen Dulles was its author - we do not know for sure. However, the Soviet Union did indeed collapse. Something similar is happening now with Russia - it is moving towards collapse, without any apparent external cause. And perhaps there is a plan for it, and it exists.

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

Putin is an ambitious, authoritative, and vain person. Therefore, for him, a loud momentary success may be more important than long-term stable development. This is the first introductory fact.

Secondly, the Russian Federation, with high oil prices, is a significant player in the global market. Taking into account the foreign economic activity and investments of Russian businesses, possession of nuclear weapons, and vast territory, it can confidently be considered one of the main strategic opponents of the United States. Moreover, this opponent has significant national ambitions and is very difficult to negotiate with.

In 2014, riots broke out, escalating into a state coup. Against the backdrop of the coup, tension escalated in pro-Russian territories, particularly in Crimea and Donbass. Russia, led by Putin, saw these territories as an easy and very attractive prize. In a short period of time, Crimea "returns home" and Putin's popularity increases. This is the very instant success that was gambled on. Putin swallowed the bait.

The international reaction to the events in Crimea is evident - Russia is being declared an aggressor country, and the very fact of the change of power in Crimea is considered an annexation that violates international principles. The first goal has been achieved - Russia is now "officially" an enemy of the United States, Europe, and the entire civilized world. We can now move on to the second stage.

Economic sanctions are being imposed against Russia and its leadership, fortunately there is a formal reason for this - Crimea. Despite the apparent popular support for Putin, the stability of his position is beginning to sharply decline. His associates are no longer supporting him because their foreign economic activities, and therefore their prosperity, are under threat.

Putin is trapped. He cannot release Crimea and end the war in eastern Ukraine because he will sharply lose popularity and respect from the people. However, he is increasingly pressured by his inner circle, whose opinion he cannot ignore either. He ended up where he was driven by those who understood his ambition well and created conditions for unrest in Ukraine in 2014.

Apparently, according to the plan, the resolution should be a state coup in Russia, a change of power, and the collapse of the country into pieces. Once again, just like in the history of the USSR, a serious opponent will disappear from the battlefield completely bloodlessly, destroying itself.

Isn't it worthy of admiration?

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:18:08 +0300.