The main goal of any government regime is survival. The main potential threat to this is always the people oppressed by this regime. The most active and determined representatives of the people, united around a common goal, are called the opposition. The transition of the opposition to decisive actions results in rallies, demonstrations, strikes, riots, and acts of terrorism. Unsuccessful attempts are qualified as a coup d'état and brutally punished by the regime. Successful ones are given the proud name of Revolution and celebrated. A new regime emerges.

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

In order to avoid watching the celebration of the anniversary of the revolution on the TV cameras of the detention center, the regime needs to keep the opposition under control. It is necessary to prevent them from taking decisive actions. To achieve this, they can be pursued, punished, intimidated, and destroyed. However, the martyr role of opposition revolutionaries only fuels their enthusiasm and attracts new supporters. Only regimes of strong dictatorships (such as Lukashenko, Kim Jong Un, Berdimuhamedov) can afford openly repressive measures against the opposition.

A weak regime, taking its first steps towards true authoritarianism (Russia, Ukraine), finds it more advantageous to use the method of fictitious opposition, which consists of the following. The most prominent, loud, and audacious figures are selected from the opposition movement, whose slogans are filled with hatred towards the regime, but completely exclude any constructive criticism ("Putin is a thief" or "Poroshenko is the supreme profiteer"). These figures become the mouthpieces of the opposition (Navalny, Saakashvili). The regime minimally obstructs them, only enough to not deprive them of their status as heroes and revolutionaries (regularly arresting and releasing them).

Soon, a majority of those dissatisfied with the regime gathers around these leaders. Over time, the percentage of those capable of meaningful and constructive revolutionary actions among the gathered individuals begins to decline. This is mainly due to the influx of enthusiastic supporters who often resort to catchy and vulgar slogans. In terms of quality, the composition of the opposition mass descends to the level of an ordinary citizen, completely incapable of inflicting any significant harm to the regime.

Opposition leaders, being public figures, are entirely dependent on the opinions and desires of their audience. Being hostages of those they have gathered around themselves, they are forced to generate the informational product that their opposition electorate demands, namely, widespread abuse towards those in power. However rude and offensive this opposition may sound, it is completely harmless to the regime because those who are truly capable of staging a coup will not rally behind its slogans. By the time the main opposition leaders triumph, there are simply no such people among their supporters.

The development of a fictitious opposition does not hinder the regime, but on the contrary, it actively contributes to it. The louder and cruder their slogans sound, the more incapable population they will gather around themselves, and the fewer truly dangerous fighters against the regime will remain there. At the same time, the real revolution loses its chances of capturing minds because its voice sounds softer and less convincing against the backdrop of categorical, vivid, bold, and primitive slogans.

Russia has been following this path for a long time. Now Ukraine is also adopting this method.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:17:46 +0300.