Terrorist attack in New Zealand. Yesterday. 50 dead bodies. One killer. Condolences were expressed by Vladimir Putin, Donald Trump, Queen Elizabeth II, Barack Obama, the entire European Union represented by Federica Mogherini, and many others. The event is undoubtedly tragic. However, now the question arises: why do such events attract our attention and the attention of our leaders? Is it solely due to their tragic nature or are there other reasons?

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

First, for reference, here are some statistics: 150,000 people die daily (!) worldwide, with 40,000 of them dying from hunger. 3,000 people die daily as a result of road traffic accidents, and 1,000 people become victims of killers. One thousand. Every day.

In the mosques of Christchurch, 50 people died. Each of them will be buried with honors, as an innocent victim, while we will never know about the rest of the thousand killed on the same day. And about those who will be killed tomorrow, too. And the day after tomorrow.

Why isn't the Ostankino Tower powered off every day in memory of those who died on the roads? After all, only in Russia, it's over a hundred people a day. What makes fifty people from New Zealand better than our compatriots? Why do we mourn them as a whole country, but not those who die daily from cancer or heart attacks?

I think the main reason for the global mourning is not that women and children have died. As statistics show, they die in much larger numbers every day, and they are no less innocent than the Muslims from the New Zealand mosque. The issue lies elsewhere. Every such terrorist attack, which has been happening more frequently lately, let's remember Andreas Breivik, who killed 77 people during an attack on the Norwegian Labour Party's youth camp in 2011, or Dylan Roof, who in 2015 shot nine African Methodist Episcopal Church parishioners in Charleston, is, first of all, an excellent news reason for thousands of journalists around the world, and secondly, and most importantly, a threat to the fundamental principles of morality on which power is based in all countries of the modern world.

It is not the fact of death and murder that upsets us, but rather that one person allowed themselves to do what is only allowed by God (let's remember the thousands of daily deaths from cancer, stroke, or car accidents) and... the government. In fact, yesterday, 28-year-old Australian citizen Brenton Tarrant executed 50 people without trial or investigation. More precisely, there was a trial and investigation, and Tarrant documented their conclusions in his manifesto, but this trial is not part of the US justice system, and that is what upsets Donald Trump and the entire American people along with him.

Brenton Tarrant has challenged the centuries-old formula of power on which modern society is built: to execute or pardon is decided either by God or his representative on earth - the state, represented for example by Donald Trump. It is not so much the fifty unknown Muslims who became victims of Tarrant, but rather the entire system of state power in New Zealand, and along with it, the whole world.

Speaking strictly in legal terms, the object of the crime known as a terrorist act is always "public safety" and not the loss of human life (see Article 205 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation or Article 258 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine). The international community cannot tolerate such a crime against itself. In this regard, leaders of all countries are united - no one is allowed to take away their right to judge, pass sentences, execute, or grant clemency.

So Trump is lying when he writes about how he mourns the dead. He doesn't feel sorry for the dead, otherwise he would mourn daily for those dying from hunger or domestic violence. He is drawing our attention to the fact that he cannot tolerate competition.

И, кстати, прочтите манифест.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:23:51 +0300.