Russian liberalism is taking on increasingly aggressive forms and taking to the streets, Instagram, and YouTube. "We will definitely win" is the main slogan of the fighters against injustice. For now, their main weapon is peaceful demonstrations, thousands of likes, and professionally edited video channels. Many of them are even likable to us. However, their directors deserve true applause. In the uncompromising cyber war, they manage to defeat armies of "Kremlin bots," turning mediocrity into national heroes. As the curtain falls, Russia is apparently awaiting its own Maidan, a transfer of power, a redistribution of property, amnesties, arrests, and... the final victory of good over evil. It is expected that "we will win," and corruption along with the abuse of power by officials will disappear forever. Maybe we will "win," but will they disappear?

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

[Corruption](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corruption_in_Russia) is evil! A catchy slogan. It guarantees a place on the podiums. It is easy to inspire the masses with it, to rally them for the fight and take them to the streets. Who has never encountered bribes, kickbacks, extortion, and demands from officials? [Everyone](https://www.vedomosti.ru/politics/news/2019/05/06/800778-fsb-opros) has encountered them. Statistics can help: according to [data](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corruption_Perceptions_Index) from Transparency International, Russian authorities are one of the most corrupt in the world (136th out of 180).

Who are these enemies of the Russian people who take bribes and hinder us from living? These are citizens of Russia who have been fortunate enough to hold government positions. There are approximately 140 of them for every ten thousand people. But what about the remaining 9860 people in Russia? Who do they work for and what do they produce? Let's listen to the statistics and calculate.

In 2018, Russia exported goods and services worth $450 billion. Of this, only $125 billion (about a quarter) constitutes the so-called non-commodity non-energy exports, which refers to everything that is not oil or gas. In other words, three-quarters of the country's exports are occupied by the extraction of minerals and their sale abroad, or, as the father of the nation aptly named this process, "trading with the Motherland." It is entirely logical that with a corrupt state apparatus and the state being the main shareholder of the largest oil companies, officials and law enforcement agencies are the main beneficiaries of this trade with the Motherland.

The rest of the population is largely engaged in either extracting these minerals (only 2.2% of the total working population) or servicing the aforementioned officials (over 70%, according to the Federal State Statistics Service, see page 49). They need to be groomed, dressed, shod, fed, resettled in new apartments, and entertained.

In order for an official to be able to steal, he needs assistance. He must be well-dressed and well-shod. He needs to have electricity and hot water in his apartment. He requires good roads, quality food, and medical services. The majority of the working population in Russia is responsible for providing all of this. Officials extract oil and sell it abroad, and the population assists them in this endeavor, dreaming of being as close to the state as possible and, if lucky, occupying a position near valuable natural resources.

This is what modern Russian neo-feudalism looks like.

In the current situation, some blame the Soviet past and post-Soviet devastation, from which we cannot recover; some believe that the rich nature is a curse for modern Russia, corrupting the economy; and for some, it is obvious that behind all this are American Masons, seeing Russia as a supplement to their American economy and throwing geopolitical challenges at us in the form of new packages of sanctions. The majority agree on one thing: there is no way out.

Anyway, Russia is a country with vast reserves and centuries-old corruption, which involves the majority of the population. I dare to assume that attempts to fight corruption in Russia have always been made, but the goal of defeating it was never pursued. For instance, five centuries ago, Tsar Ivan the Terrible introduced the death penalty as a punishment "for excessive (!) bribes". Notice that it was not for bribes per se, but specifically for their excessiveness.

Thus, producing little of value, we mainly serve bureaucrats who "trade their homeland".

And in these conditions, we hear the slogan "we will win". The question is, who exactly do you want to defeat, gentlemen liberals? And what will we do after we put those who are currently pumping oil in prison? We will have to replace them with new officials and entrust them with pumping the same oil, in the same volumes. Simply because we don't know how to do anything else yet, and we don't really want to.

We are either thieves or servants.

The European or American model may suit us if we implement it gradually, over a period of about a hundred years, gradually replacing oil and gas extraction with furniture, automobile, phone, construction materials, and meat production. Gradually replacing thieves and their accomplices with builders, programmers, farmers, and engineers. Gradually replacing respect for the uniform with respect for calloused hands. Gradually replacing dreams of the greatest country with dreams of the wealthiest. Gradually!

Today's "our" temporary victory on Sakharov Avenue will only lead to one thing: replacing one officials with others. The essence and structure of the Russian economy and social order will not change. They cannot be changed in one day. And not in one year either. And certainly not by one person.

It is absolutely obvious to the authors of the slogan "we will win" that it is absolutely obvious. They are not talking about our victory, but about their personal one. They will win, and we will remain who we were - servants of the servants of the people.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:26:43 +0300.