According to many researchers, the testosterone levels in American and European men have been steadily declining over the past few decades. Testosterone is a hormone that distinguishes men from women, as well as more aggressive and strong men from passive and weak ones. Therefore, the mass decrease of this hormone in men's blood indicates that there are fewer active and dominant individuals, and the gap between genders is narrowing. This raises two questions: why is this happening and who benefits from it?

Some scientists try to answer the first question by linking the decrease in testosterone to obesity, alcohol consumption, smoking, lack of physical activity, stress, etc. However, it is not very believable that these problems are progressing as rapidly as the decline in masculinity hormone levels. Have we really started consuming alcohol and smoking significantly more than our ancestors? This is not the case. In Russia, for example, alcohol consumption has almost halved in the last 13 years, and in other countries and periods, the dynamics vary. However, there is no trend of alcohol degradation anywhere. On the contrary, especially in developed countries, the population's health level and life expectancy are increasing.

Therefore, other studies are more interesting. For example, Danish scientists, after observing over a thousand men for more than ten years, found that married men have testosterone levels significantly lower than single men. It is believed by scientists that married men require much less testosterone in marriage, as they do not have the need to compete for a partner. Another example is the results of research conducted by biologists from Northwest University in the USA, which prove that the testosterone levels in men's blood decrease immediately after the birth of their children.

Based on the above, I dare to suggest that it is not alcohol and obesity that are to blame for men weakening and losing aggression. The blame lies with the new formula of social relationships, in which the old virtues of men, such as willpower, determination, and independence, have been replaced by sensitivity, empathy, and the ability to compromise. Female emancipation and the fight against gender stereotypes have deprived men of their previous status. From being the head of the family, responsible for its well-being and decision-making, he has become an equal partner making a contribution to family affairs. In this new role, men require less testosterone, so our bodies adapt in response to these new social demands and lower hormone levels.

The answer to the first question was found: the male social role has undergone changes, and therefore the testosterone level has decreased, adapting us to new realities and new behavior. Now, who benefits from this? Why were we "given" a new model of behavior, thereby reducing testosterone? Who ultimately gained from this? Men lost – they have less strength and sexual energy. Women lost – their men have less strength and sexual energy. So, who won?

One can make the assumption that no one is behind this and that it all happened on its own: women got tired of being women, they overthrew men from the patriarchal pedestal that had been established by millions of years of evolution, and reversed nature in just a hundred years! Perhaps. However, this is hardly believable, especially when considering who is behind the feminist movement of recent times: Bill Gates, Nicholas Rockefeller, George Soros, and others. These are not emotionally unstable suffragettes of the past century. These are pragmatic men of the 21st century. They unquestionably have motives and goals.

Каковы же они?

У меня есть три версии.

A decrease in testosterone levels in men leads to a decrease in fertility. A decrease in fertility leads to a decrease in population size, and overpopulation of the planet is a well-known concern. There are too many of us, and a world war will not solve this situation. We live longer, live better, and survive in large numbers. If this continues, there will be too many of us, which will be scarier than any tsunami. We will perish under our own weight. However, scientists believe that any animal population strives to adjust its size to the available resources for its livelihood. However, this process occurs in a wave-like pattern: population size first sharply increases, then sharply decreases, then increases again, but not as dramatically, then decreases again, but not as sharply. After several fluctuations, the population size stabilizes.

From the outside, this process seems logical, however, it brings a lot of inconvenience to those who were unlucky to live during a declining trend when the population sharply decreases due to mass famine and epidemics. Instead of waiting for these catastrophic events to occur, it is possible to proactively reduce birth rates and stabilize the population size.

The results are already here, the plan is working. Birth rates have significantly decreased in developed countries over the past decades. We just need to figure out Asia, India, and Africa, and the problem will be solved.

The main threat to the majority of the modern world over the past century has not been global warming, world wars, epidemics, or tsunamis. The main threat has been the idea of global equality, better known as communism. At the beginning of the last century, the Russian Empire managed to seize power by people who believed that goods should be distributed not based on the principle of "who owns, profits," but rather "who works more, earns more." This idea appealed greatly to those who were working at that time. However, it terrified those who had inherited land and capital but never knew how to work or even attempted to do so. In one particular country, everything was taken away from them and they were forced to labor. What if the Bolsheviks had gone further and reached Manhattan?

Such plans were made by the Bolsheviks, but the Second World War interfered. They were unable to reach Manhattan, and after the death of the last Bolshevik, communism was discredited, disgraced, and ridiculed in North Korea and Cuba. However, the fear remained. Sooner or later, if vigilance is lost, the fire may ignite again, and who knows, maybe this time it will reach Manhattan.

Revolution, as it is known, is made by rough, bold, and audacious men who have nothing to lose but their chains. If their testosterone is lowered in advance, by teaching them that raising their voice is not good and that domestic violence leads to imprisonment, they will not climb the barricades. Such a preventive measure is much cheaper and more reliable than a civil war with crowds of hungry workers and soldiers.

Testosterone is responsible for aggressiveness, dominance, masculinity, as well as the resulting bravery, audacity, determination, uncompromising nature, and self-confidence. All these qualities attract the opposite sex, however, they are completely incompatible with perseverance, patience, thoroughness, and, as a result, deep knowledge. It is the scientists with their profound research in physics, chemistry, and mathematics who have given our civilization the telephone, television, and the Internet. It is to "nerds" and "henpecked" individuals, rather than sexual heroes and uncompromising tyrants, that we owe our happy hi-tech lifestyle.

Apparently, it's not women that feminists have been liberating for a hundred consecutive years, but men. Men who are called "nerds" at school and "pushovers" in families. However, it is these men who create what our civilization needs at its current stage of development - complex technical solutions and new scientific discoveries. By lowering testosterone levels, we equalize the social rights of strong and weak men, giving nerds the opportunity to no longer feel like less of a man and not be distracted from science by reflecting on their sexual success. To be a respected man, it is enough to be sensitive and delicate, and they have enough of that from birth.

Moreover, bold and decisive individuals are less hardworking and manageable. They are good for individual activities such as throwing a grenade at the enemy from a trench, sprinting 100 meters, or repairing power lines. However, most professions in the modern globalized world are associated with working in large corporations and offices, where conformity and softness are the main factors of success. There is no place for strength and decisiveness in them, they only irritate others. What is needed are obedient, manageable, and intellectually working individuals. Apparently, it is these "people of the future" that those behind the feminist movement have been creating for decades.

И, видимо, правильно делают?

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo on 2023-08-16 09:32:52 +0300.