Last Sunday in Moscow, according to the disqualified candidate for the Moscow City Duma, Lyubov Sobol, the "largest unauthorized rally in recent history" took place. The protesters demanded, in her own words, "simple and understandable things": elections, freedom, and respect. Putin, Sobyanin, and other "scoundrels" in power stand in the way of the oppressed people. We need to push a little harder, and evil will retreat, prisons will crumble, and freedom will joyfully embrace us at the entrance. We also believed this in 2004, adorning ourselves with orange ribbons in Kyiv. And then again in 2014 on the Euromaidan. And we were wrong.

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

Have you ever tried to organize a rally with thousands of people? In theory, it doesn't seem difficult. There is an obvious agenda: Putin is a scoundrel and a thief. It is currently a trend, and it seems like everyone would support you in it. Create a YouTube channel for yourself, record a few videos, tell the truth to everyone, provide evidence, call for resistance and fight. Then set a date for the rally and come there with signs, megaphones, and flyers. How many people do you think will gather?

A few of your friends, no more.

Of course, you might say that Navalny has nearly three million subscribers on YouTube! First, you need to build an audience, and then a rally will be organized, right? Not quite. Sometimes I watch the channel "Hvatit Molchat!" which is run by a guy who is not from Moscow (I don't know his name). He has eight times fewer subscribers than Navalny. Not a thousand, but eight. However, despite having what seems like a large audience of 330,000 people, even a plane ticket to Moscow for participating in a rally turned out to be a "costly pleasure" for him, according to his own words.

Do you know how much it costs to set up a stage for a rally and rent the necessary sound equipment? Or to pay for the work of the campaign headquarters? And the funds for motivating "volunteers," rally moderators, and of course, the "independent" press? Some time ago, the late Boris Berezovsky announced the amount of financial assistance he provided to the forces behind the Orange Revolution in 2004: $45,000,000.

It is impossible to organize a mass rally with just one call to fight for "freedom and respect".

Revolts, protests, and revolutions can have various natures, but essentially, they can probably be divided into two categories. The first one is rebellion. Bright examples of this include Krasnodar (1961), Aleksandrov (1961), Tambov (1920-1921), and finally, the Spartacus uprising. The cause of rebellion is mass dissatisfaction with living conditions, specifically hunger and/or violence. As life becomes increasingly worse, people can no longer bear it, their patience snaps, and they take to the streets, unafraid of punishment because they have no strength left.

The second category, which includes the majority of mass protest movements, is the change of power. One ruling group fights against another for access to resources and uses mass disorder as a tool of pressure. The most vivid examples in recent times are the Euromaidan in Kiev in 2014.

Certainly, it is quite difficult to draw a clear line between the revolt of an oppressed people and the organized transfer of power disguised as a people's struggle against tyranny. Of course, during the 2014 protests on Maidan in Kiev, there were many who genuinely were dissatisfied with their lives and hoped to bring about change by overthrowing Yanukovych. Of course, at the rally last Sunday on Tverskaya in Moscow, there were many who sincerely believed that by replacing Putin with Navalny, they would be able to improve their personal well-being. And, of course, every revolt inevitably mobilizes all the processes of power transfer that have matured by its beginning. Naturally, any revolt predominantly brings to power those who have been fighting for it in one way or another even before the mass actions begin.

However, sometimes the ears of power seekers stick out too much.

It is evident that the protest movements in Russia in recent years should be attributed to the second category --- transfer of power. There are no objective reasons for dissatisfaction with life among Russians. Undoubtedly, Russia is not the most comfortable country to live in, and I have written about this more than once. However, thanks to powerful propaganda and a slowly growing economy, there cannot be natural mass protest sentiments among the population. There are excesses, there are shortcomings, there is corruption, but there are not enough conditions for a mass uprising against the existing system.

I did not attend an unauthorized rally last Sunday, but I visited a sanctioned one two weeks earlier. The overall impression was that it was not a protest, but rather a Sunday stroll. People, for the most part, seemed satisfied. They were stylishly dressed, calm, and knew they would have well-paid jobs waiting for them on Monday. They came to take a leisurely walk through the beautiful center of Moscow, to see people and showcase themselves. There was no aggression in them, and they were very afraid of getting into any conflicts with the police. They were polite, friendly, and their behavior completely lacked any signs of rebellion.

Russia is not rebelling on its own. Rather, it is rebelling within the framework of a regular rebellion of a Central European country, like Italy, Germany, or England regularly rebels. Someone wants Russia to rebel more intensively. So intensively that a change of power takes place. Who wants this? What forces stand behind Navalny and others? Where will these forces lead the country after gaining power? Will this direction be more democratic than it is now? I don't know.

Do those who attend rallies ask themselves these questions?

И знают ли они ответы?

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:26:00 +0300.