Yesterday I finished watching the series El Chapo (2017-2018), which tells the story of the still unfinished life of one of the most successful drug lords of our time, named Joaquin Guzman. The first season turned out to be the strongest, the second weaker, and I was only able to digest the third season thanks to the storyline of Conrado. But now we're not talking about cinema, but about drugs.

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

Throughout the entire film, illustrating the past 20 years of modern history, the corrupt Mexican government battles the number one enemy of the state. In the confrontation with Joaquin, the less corrupt but equally treacherous and two-faced DEA (Drug Enforcement Administration) also actively participates. In the end, our hero, with whom we have become friends throughout the film, is captured, extradited to the United States, and handed over to the hands of a fair American court. Justice prevails, and... American teenagers stop using methamphetamine!

The creators of the film do not tell us anything about this even in the final credits, where it is solemnly announced that Joaquin has killed between two and three thousand people during his years of professional activity. They do not say, probably because the arrest of El Chapo does not concern teenagers much, and finding where to buy methamphetamine does not interfere at all. Statistics show that, despite the active fight against drug trafficking, drug consumption is increasing, and the mortality rate from drug overdose is twice as high in the United States as in any other developed country, such as Europe.

I don't have exact statistics on the situation in Ukraine, but based on the graffiti on walls in any major city, one can judge the market situation: drugs are in high demand. Regular arrests of drug dealers do not prevent buyers from finding the goods they need... from new drug dealers.

Want to know my opinion? I consider punishing producers to be hypocrisy. After all, many of those who caught El Chapo, extradited him to New York, and will soon be judging and lynching him, are his clients themselves. They, as representatives of the whole country, openly express only half of the public interest. However, in reality, society wants two things simultaneously: 1) narcotic euphoria and 2) to punish those who sell it.

The second interest is expressed openly and verbally, while the first is secret and involves money: the consumption of illegal drugs in the United States alone exceeds 100 billion dollars per year. We vote with our dollars and hryvnias for drug production, while openly persecuting those who produce them. The number of people who use drugs at least once a year is approximately 275 million, which is roughly 5.6% of the world's population aged 15 to 64 years.

Парадокс.

If we truly want El Chapo to grow cotton instead of cocaine and synthesize gouache instead of fentanyl, let's all together... stop using drugs. There's no need to shoot, kill, arrest, judge, and spend three billion dollars a year on it (DEA budget). It's enough to simply stop buying what this brave Mexican man produces and sells. I'm sure he would quickly redirect his energy towards a socially beneficial business.

On the contrary, by actively fighting against sellers like him, we admit our own weakness and foolishness: nothing can stop us from indulging in something sweet before bed. So should we imprison all confectioners? What do confectioners have to do with it? Are they to blame for us being overweight, lazy, and lacking willpower? They merely exploit our weaknesses, but they are not the root cause. Drug dealers are the confectioners, and lazy and overweight individuals are us.

What should we do if the problem is not with the manufacturers, but with ourselves?

How to reduce the demand for drugs? How to convince the population that addiction is evil? Maybe it is necessary to intimidate? Or maybe lift the bans, and the interest will naturally decrease?

On the first path of intimidation, countries like Iran, Saudi Arabia, and China are included, where the death penalty is in place, including for drug possession. In many other countries, the punishments are less severe but still harsh, including in Ukraine and Russia. Statistics will undoubtedly show that police measures have a positive effect.

Countries in Western Europe are following a different path. For example, in the Netherlands or Portugal, possession of small quantities of drugs is not considered a criminal offense, although it does entail certain societal measures. Once again, statistics show that legalization brings positive results.

I don't believe in either the first or the second way.

It's not about intimidation or permissions, but about our needs. Drugs are needed where the needs for joy, happiness, success, self-realization, and everything else that Maslow described in his famous pyramid are not sufficiently satisfied. In one of his recent novels, Vladimir Sorokin vividly depicts a future world where Telluria becomes the richest country thanks to the invention of a unique drug whose effect significantly surpasses all others. The whole world depends on Telluria because it knows how to make people happy and sells "nails made of Tellurium" at a very high price.

The film Traffic (2000) effectively illustrates the problem: the fight against drug trafficking becomes a struggle with one's own family for one of its leaders. The true enemy turns out to be not the heroin dealer, but his consumer - the daughter of one of the main characters, who realizes that even if he defeats the producer, he will not be able to defeat the main buyer - his daughter will always find a way to purchase a new dose of "happiness".

Olga Bogomolets believes that "today we need to not legalize drugs, but to expand the list of prohibited substances and ensure effective control over their circulation and [to] systematically fight against drug trafficking organizers." No, Olga, it's not about legalization or fighting against drug trafficking --- that won't help the cause.

The matter is about improving the standard of living of the Ukrainian population and satisfying their needs in education, leisure, art, and everything that can replace drugs. We need to give people something that will please them as much as cocaine. It is evident that it is difficult to do so, but it is necessary. This is where state funds and our joint efforts should be invested.

Fighting against drug trafficking and drug addicts is like fighting against confectioners. In the end, we will still be overweight, and Telluria will be in control of us.

Или, может быть, уже управляет?

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:21:39 +0300.