"The Territory of Misconceptions" with Igor Prokopenko on Ren-TV has recently become my favorite TV show. It lacks any common sense, verified facts, objective views, or any attempt at sober analysis. However, it presents a concise, emphatic, one-sided, and decisive presentation of the authors' point of view. I want to believe that it fully coincides with the point of view of the entire vertical of power that these journalists serve. That's why I watch it: to understand exactly what the authorities want and for me to believe.

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

I like Prokopenko's work. He does not get distracted by opponents' opinions, does not burden the narrative with factual evidence, does not clutter the air with quotes and the names of real experts, and does not go into details or clarifications. He speaks not to the listener's brain, but to their heart. He generalizes and simplifies: "Western theorists," "world experts," "European leaders," and "British scientists." He clearly and concisely divides the world into "our engineers" and "Russian soldiers," "American soldiers" and "European gays," "Rothschilds" and "Rockefellers." It is very easy to understand him, his words do not require a second thought. He presents vividly and convincingly.

It is interesting that he does not always criticize the West and praise Russia. At first, this is surprising, as his uncompromising rhetoric initially appears to be nothing more than shameless propaganda for Putin's Russia. However, very soon you begin to understand that this is not always the case.

In one plot, he has idiotic American generals commanding lazy, obese soldiers, while in another, these malicious and dangerous scoundrels seize any opportunity to ruin our lives. In one plot, the entire Georgia is populated by Nazis, while in another, they are our fraternal people who need our help. In one, Poroshenko is a criminal, while in another, he is a victim. In one, Russia thrives, while in another, its population perishes from diseases, hunger, and rampant corruption.

After several hours of watching this info garbage, you begin to understand what exactly they want from you. It's not love for Putin, not hatred for Trump, not sympathy for Georgian children who fell into the hands of Nazis, and not a belief in the inviolability of our borders. Not at all. They expect us to be ready to have simple and categorical judgments on the most complex and important issues.

When I hear the phrase "world experts have confirmed" for the first time, I want to ask which experts exactly they are referring to. When I hear it again a few minutes later, I smile and understand that they have no intention of presenting any experts to me. When I hear it for the tenth time, I realize that there are no experts, there never were and never will be. And they are not needed. They want me to stop looking for experts, to stop analyzing, to stop doubting and relying on logic. They want me to stop thinking and start judging and condemning.

When I started this political blog several years ago, I had an old acquaintance who used to read my posts on Facebook. She would read and comment on my early articles, and every time she would ask me, who exactly am I supporting? She was waiting for me to take a clear stance, especially on the issues of Crimea and Donbass, Putin and Ukraine, Russian and Ukrainian language. She wanted to know exactly where I stood. But I encouraged her not to seek absolute and unequivocal truth, but rather to see the contradictions and conflicts between different equally valid perspectives. In the end, she unfriended me with the words, literally: "Your blog is empty!"

Unlike my blog, Igor Prokopenko's shows on Ren-TV are not empty. They are filled to the brim with absolute truths. And it doesn't matter which side these truths are on. What matters is that they help the viewer calm down, stop hesitating, stop worrying, exhale, and take one of the proposed positions: either for or against.

First-level propaganda calls for "For the Motherland, for Stalin!" This propaganda seems to be significantly weaker than the second-level propaganda: "For!"

"Just 'Yes!' without clarification. Prokopenko and others like him will talk about the war, the Maidan, the Nazis, and LGBT festivals in their next TV broadcasts. Our task is to listen to them, ignore the absence and distortion of facts, manipulation and incompleteness of statistics, exaggerations and blatant distortion of opinions, and to identify for ourselves what will fill our lives with meaning: the clarity of conclusions."

If Goebbels, the first major master of propaganda, needed a people convinced of the inevitable victory of National Socialism, then modern propagandists need a persuadable population. To achieve this, we need to be taught to take one of two positions and stick to it until the end.

Many years ago, I had a dispute with a well-educated and devout Jewish friend. He argued that the Arab-Israeli conflict was solely the fault of the Arabs, who hindered the growth of the developing state of Israel. However, I tried to show him that both sides of the conflict had their own truths, and the Arab world also had valid grievances. For a while, we passionately exchanged facts, but then he fell silent, looked into my eyes attentively, and asked, "Whose side are you actually on?"

Hearing arguments from both sides, weighing opinions, asking questions, seeking answers, doubting, and acknowledging our mistakes is much more difficult than knowing whose side the truth is on. Modern propaganda plays on these weaknesses of ours and develops them. It no longer explains why national socialism or communism is the highest form of social organization. It simply teaches us to vote for one of the proposed options. And to do it quickly, emotionally, and wholeheartedly. It teaches us to find enemies and friends without wasting time on intermediate stages of analysis and fact-checking.

It is much easier to govern a population trained in this way, than those who rush to give their vote for one of the "truths", and are accustomed to seek the truth somewhere in between.

Paraphrasing my Facebook acquaintance, it can be concluded that a modern "empty" person is someone who lacks a clear opinion on any sensitive political issue. Doubts, in this case, are only obstacles on the path to a bright future!

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:25:17 +0300.