I am writing this article based on the results of my trip to small Russian cities, namely Penza, Samara, and Novosibirsk. It was a depressing impression, especially after Moscow. Poverty and dirt. However, there is absolutely no feeling that these cities are inhabited by stupid and lazy people who deserve such a life. Rather, "they seem not to be idlers and could live differently." What is the matter? Why do people in the third city of Russia barely make ends meet while working two shifts, and there is dirt and potholes on their streets? How do they differ from Muscovites or, let's say, residents of Zurich?

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

The answer is obvious: they steal! However, it's not as simple as it seems.

In both Penza and Zurich, very similar people live, most of them have eight working hours a day to create goods and services. Each Swiss citizen produces about $65,000 worth of these goods and services per year, while the average Russian is slightly lower - only $29,000. Twice as less. Have you been to Zurich? How about Penza? The Swiss autobahn and the road from Penza airport to its center are not "twice as different," they are two big differences.

Apparently, the issue is not laziness and negligence, but rather theft. But who is behind it? Under the cover of night, burglars persistently break into the storerooms in Penza, stealing all the valuables diligently created by the people and vanish in an unknown direction. Unlucky residents of Penza wake up in the morning, discovering broken locks, sigh, return to their lathes and sewing machines, and continue working. And so it repeats year after year.

No, thieves are not like that. The robbers of Penza do not need the night to take a large part of the GDP produced by its residents. They act openly during the day, without much restraint or fear. Because they are the residents of Penza. More precisely, its best representatives.

It is not theft that causes dirt and poverty, despite such a high GDP, but rather the imbalanced distribution of earned resources. $65,000 earned by a Swiss person in a year will mainly be spent on themselves, their family, and road repairs in front of their house. Some portion will go to officials, capitalists, and other idlers who do not create the product themselves but only own the means of its creation, such as capital and land. However, this portion will be significantly less than what the average Russian gives to their owners.

At the very beginning of perestroika, a film called Jack Vosmerkin - "American" was released, the protagonist of which tried to build a business in young Soviet Russia. On his plot of land, he planted tobacco, grew it with the help of his family, and decided to start a promotional campaign by giving out free cigars to fellow villagers as a "trial". The entire village gladly smoked the free promotional product, but refused to buy the product outright, mainly citing that "neighbors don't do that". They were vehemently outraged by Jack's desire to profit from his fellow unfortunate comrades - fellow poor people.

Then something interesting happened. Jack, having no means of existence and being rejected by the entire market, traded his tobacco for favors with the local tough guy Skorokhodov, who ground it into snuff and started selling it to the same poor people who immediately lined up. No more protests were heard.

Why is that? What is the difference between Jack, who grew tobacco, and Skorokhodov, who just resold it? Why were people only willing to receive free gifts from Jack, while there was no doubt that Skorokhodov needed to be paid?

The difference between them is huge - they come from different social classes. Jack is just as poor as they are. Skorokhodov is their owner. In the minds of the heroes of this comedy, despite the revolution and profound social changes of that time, the formula of social "justice" has forever remained: we work, the owner gets rich. And if any American tries to question this dogma, even in our favor, the whole village will stand up in defense. Skorokhodov didn't need to do anything. The entire village defended his interests as the owner of capital.

Something similar happens in modern Russia, Ukraine, and many other countries, where people are accustomed to wealthy and all-powerful owners who "rightfully" possess the majority of all the products and services that these people create. In other words, the whole city of Penza works for a small number of individuals who are called thieves in the opposition press, but whose interests the entire city will rush to defend if their right to ownership of the city is questioned.

It's not about stealing. No one is stealing anything, although technically the actions of officials can often be classified as such. The issue lies in the natural and historically inherited desire of the entire nation for social inequality and material injustice.

Can we modify this formula and bring our consciousness closer to the consciousness of an average Swiss, for whom a fellow villager getting rich thanks to it is not a misunderstanding or a threat - that is an interesting question. However, a much more interesting question is whether we need to.

Maybe let Jack return to his America, and we can continue working at Skorokhodov's here, where we are more accustomed.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:24:31 +0300.