Recently, one of the readers of my political works passionately asked me, why do I do this? What am I trying to achieve and why do I write? What am I calling for? Who am I with and against whom? What actions do I expect from the readers? He was also very interested in the question of where my homeland is: in Moscow or in Kiev? The answer seemed to surprise and disappoint him.

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

Recently, I read a new book by Eduard Limonov called "Azbuka" - a collection of thoughts on various topics, almost unrelated to each other - about politics, about Donbass, about Putin, about old age, about violence, and of course about women. The text is juicy and candid, and the ideas are radical and sound, for example:

They constantly poke at the shit of revolution, claiming that the number of victims of revolution is evidence in favor of evolution. But has anyone bothered to count the number of victims of evolution? All those who died from alcoholism, suicide, depression? How many children were not born out of the despair and hopelessness of the previous generation? Now they have forced us to live according to evolution. I know thousands of people who could not realize their talents. And they are rotting away on their feet.

Или вот это:

People do not change power. People are unable to change anything. They are scattered, attached to their home, children, conservative and apolitical wife (most women are apolitical, moreover, under an authoritarian regime, they, the weaker sex, live better and feel safer).

However, while I agree with the author on almost everything, I was surprised by his naive bewilderment.

Square-headed liberals babble that I supposedly support Putin. But I have more disagreements with Putin than all of their stupid and deceitful liberal clique combined.

Do you, Eduard Veniaminovich, with prison and war behind you, not know how the mass consciousness works? Our consciousness. You provoke thoughts and reasoning, while we wait for conclusions. You question elementary truths, and it makes us uncomfortable. You offer analysis, while we wait for synthesis. For us, squareheads, it is crucial to know: Do you actually support Putin or not?!

"Мы не можем предоставить Вам выводы, директивы или точные алгоритмы. Мы не можем синтезировать однозначность для Вас и указать, под чьими знаменами Вам следовать. Это не соответствует нашим принципам."

Do you want everything to be "for" or "against"? Turn to the Communist Party of the Russian Federation. They are so stupid.

You refuse to dull with us, and we refuse to support you. However, it was not always like this.

Previous generations witnessed an open war between two ideologies. The newspaper "Pravda" told the truth, while the magazine Time lied. And vice versa, depending on who was reading. It doesn't matter who was actually right. What matters is that objectively, the bipolar agenda gathered around it the intellectual elite. Where else could they gather, if the world is polarized, and it's certainly interesting to talk and think about it?! Limonov's first books were written in exile, where he ended up after a conflict with the KGB - "we'll either imprison you or you leave" - that's how it was formulated, according to his own words.

The vector of social conflict (capitalism versus communism) coincided with the vector of the most progressive thinking (freedom or slavery). The best people were either in the academy of sciences or in exile. And in both places, there were geniuses, heated debates, and the opportunity to find the truth.

However, the ideology of Lenin and Stalin lost. Limonov returned to Russia. He returned to a place where the war had already ended. There were no longer two camps, no dissidents, and no KGB - the fire of world revolution had died down. The intellectual elite returned from exile and celebrated victory, while the economy surrendered to the mercy of the winners - we were brought McDonald's and Casio calculators, in exchange for oil and a hungry and illiterate market of 150 million people. We emerged from the grim interlude of the 90s without a new political agenda. The Soviet Union, once the "empire of evil," turned into a handful of underdeveloped colonies, no longer aspiring to fight against the yoke of capitalism, and people became weaker and more cowardly. There was no longer a need to seek the truth - work for Uncle Sam and be happy.

However, intellectuals with their eternal protest needed to focus their energy somewhere. We needed that very bipolarity that we lost when we dismantled Iron Felix. As a result, intentionally or accidentally, a liberal movement emerged, for all that is good and against all that is bad. The "concerned intelligentsia" joined this movement because there was nothing else to align with (certainly not the bloody regime of VVP!).

However, despite the simplified formula of "down with Putin!", the world is no longer as simple as in Limonov's youth. It is no longer divided into Uncle Sam and the proletariat, and therefore, merely removing Putin and his associates from power is unlikely to solve all the problems as it once did, by immediately abandoning all the achievements of October. I am convinced that liberals, unlike their thousands of followers, understand this, but they cannot do anything about it. In order for others to follow them, they need to shout loudly and clearly: "Down with..." and then a specific name.

It sounds really loud, but there is little common sense in this cry. That is why only those who are not used to seeking meaning and ... bored passers-by gather under the banners. As a result, three camps are formed instead of two, as before: 1) the authorities, 2) liberals, and 3) the thinking minority. There are no flags over the third camp, and no one is arrested there, and its numbers are constantly decreasing. It is precisely there that you can find people like Limonov - dying veterans of the Great War.

Once, in one of the restaurants in Moscow, I was asked to fill out a form to get a regular visitor card. The last item on the simple questionnaire was a sarcastic question "Whose Crimea?" with a blank field for response. It took me a few minutes to come up with a concise answer, different from the simplistic "ours" or "not ours."

The world has become more complex, simple formulas like "ours vs. yours" or "freedom vs. slavery" are no longer capable of describing the reality that surrounds us. Anyone who wants to present the situation in terms of "for" or "against" is not just a fool. They are harmful individuals, whether they are liberals or Kremlin propagandists.

Why am I writing this blog? To instill in you, my readers, a love for questionnaires with open fields. If we can fill in the open fields, then true freedom will follow.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:27:37 +0300.