Historically, states were needed, among other things, for more effective warfare. The larger the group, the easier it was for them to defeat smaller aggressors, and the easier it was to capture adjacent territories. In order to conduct war more efficiently, technologies, science, education, culture, medicine, and much more were needed. However, all of this could have been done without the establishment of states and the imposition of rigid borders between them. Countries, flags, anthems, borders, and national interests are necessary where there is war. And war exists everywhere and always.

However, the world is changing and technologies are advancing. First and foremost, communication and labor automation technologies. Thanks to the Internet and robots, physical presence in the place of creating value-added products is becoming less important for an increasing number of professions. Programmers, of course, are the prime example. Just twenty years ago, it was crucial for them to be close to the product they were creating because the product was located on expensive servers, and mere phone or email communication was not sufficient for efficient work. Now, servers have moved to the "cloud," and communication has become not less, but often more efficient through video conferences or online chats.

Architects, designers, engineers, musicians, bloggers, writers, journalists, artists, managers, marketers, copywriters, producers, investors, analysts, and many other professions that are not tied to a specific location and do not require manual labor now often have the freedom to choose their place of residence, and even their country. Why live where you were born if you can live somewhere warmer? Why pay high income tax in France when you can pay low or zero tax in Dubai? Why rent an apartment in San Francisco for $5,000 when you can write the same articles for the Californian Weekly while renting a bungalow in Bali for $500?

One can broaden the question further, as Pavel Cherkashin did in his recent article "The homeland-as-a-service model: How blockchain will disrupt the world order" (Russian version here): why not turn the state into a service and its citizens into customers? Everyone will be free to decide in which state they want to live, choosing from all the available offerings on the market.

Suppose Belgium offers high-quality healthcare but imposes high taxes. In Brazil, taxes are lower, but the crime situation is tense. In the US, taxes are reasonable and the crime rate is not as high, but public transportation and roads are of low quality. And so on. Each country will have something to offer its clients. It's similar to renting offices or the trendy coworking spaces nowadays - each has its own conditions, price, pros, and cons.

Pavel Cherkashin predicts in his article that soon "states will have to compete for the most qualified citizens, providing the best services and advantages such as a strong economy, low taxes, a fair legal system, and reliable social security programs."

Sounds beautiful! Isn't it utopia?

Да, она.

The authors of such ideas about free migration, carried away, forget about the primary purpose of states. As mentioned above, states are needed for conducting aggressive and liberating wars between people. Despite the fact that a small percentage of the inhabitants of this planet enjoy studying new technologies and writing thoughtful articles about them (including myself), the overwhelming majority struggle for survival in a semi-war or war mode.

According to the World Bank, half of the world's population lives below the poverty line. The dynamics of social inequality, according to a recent report from the World Inequality Lab, are disheartening. The gap between the poor and the rich is widening: "the share of national income belonging to the top 10% earners is 37% in Europe, 41% in China, 46% in Russia, 47% in the United States and Canada, and approximately 55% in sub-Saharan Africa, Brazil, and India, and 61% in the Middle East."

Will all these people who live on a few dollars a month be offered a choice of a country to live in? They have already chosen. The USA. And now, specifically for them, Donald Trump is building a wall. So that they cannot fulfill their choice.

The United States, like most countries in Western Europe, is in a state of escalating semi-military conflict with countries where there is less money but no shortage of desire for a better life. The flow of emigration from the Middle East to Europe is rapidly increasing. This is not yet a third world war, but it is also not a time when visa cancellations, passport abolishment, open borders, and immigration control abolition can be discussed.

States are still necessary and still serve military purposes.

Wars have only changed their form, but have not disappeared anywhere.

Perhaps, we can talk about "the state as a service," but with one important caveat: it will be a very expensive service, and only available to a very select few. However, such a service already exists in the market, without any blockchains. Want to live and work in the USA? The EB-5 visa is always available for $1,000,000. Want to live in Zurich? 300,000 francs per year, and you're welcome. And so on. The borders have long been open. But only for the wealthy.

Will they ever be open to everyone? I don't think so. Will a child, born in the slums of Bombay, ever be able to reach the age of 18 and decide that it is better to be a citizen of the United States, live in Miami, work as a programmer there, and pay taxes there - press a couple of buttons and get an American passport? No, this will never happen or almost never.

Unfortunately or fortunately, it's hard to say.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo on 2023-08-16 09:21:41 +0300.