Democracy is the worst form of government. Power belongs to the crowd, which is unable to think strategically and consists mostly of ignorant people making impulsive decisions. This is what Aristotle believed in the 2nd century BC. He believed that a more effective system of government is one in which power belongs to those who have proven to possess more authority and are therefore capable of making more balanced and knowledgeable decisions.

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

Contrary to the thoughts of the Greek philosopher, democracy is currently the prevailing form of government in most countries around the world. Even in places where monarchy is preserved, such as in the United Kingdom or Spain, the actual governance of the country is carried out by the cabinet of ministers, and laws are enacted by the nationally elected parliament. On paper, it is the people through their representatives who govern all countries in the world, including Cuba, North Korea, and China.

For example, Article 71 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that "elections to the bodies of state power and local self-government are free and are conducted on the basis of universal, equal, and direct suffrage by secret ballot."

Aristotle, and much later Vilfredo Pareto, Gaetano Mosca, and many other supporters of elitism, were opposed to this idea of equality. They believed that people are inherently unequal in many ways, both physically and intellectually. And, more importantly, there are significantly more weak and foolish individuals in any society than strong and intelligent ones. Therefore, by granting equal rights to everyone and giving a "green light" to decisions made by the simple majority, we inevitably create conditions for the degradation of the entire community. The most rational and strategically balanced decisions will be in the minority along with their creators, simply due to the inherent inequality of human abilities. Crudely put, fools will always shout down the wise.

To solve the problem, it is logical to either a) eliminate fools altogether, b) take away their voting rights, or c) make them believe they have the right to vote when they actually don't. The Nazis attempted to go down the first path but were stopped in time. The second path leads to large-scale revolutions, as exemplified by the year 1917. Currently, all developed countries, led by the United States, are following the third path - creating an illusion of democracy where every citizen has equal voting rights, but the actual governance of the country is carried out regardless of the majority's choice.

In other words, modern democracy is a qualitative spectacle performed by a minority for the majority in order to calm them down and instill in them confidence in universal equality. Notice once again, all of this is done primarily in the interests of the majority.

Может быть есть четвертый путь?

Есть.

What if equal voting rights are replaced with unequal ones? What if every citizen doesn't have just one vote that they "cast" into the ballot box every few years, but several votes, depending on their value to society, contribution to its development, and authority? Let's say an economics professor would have 50 votes, while a hair stylist would have only two.

Of course, the first question that immediately arises is: who and how will decide how many votes each person has and why does a professor have more votes than a hairdresser? To address this, it would be possible to develop a transparent and relatively objective system for assessing the contribution of each citizen to the social and economic life of the country. For example, the following indicators could be used to calculate an electoral rating:

* Taxes paid * Published scientific works * Children and grandchildren * Convictions and offenses * Age and health status * Instagram followers (don't laugh!)

And so on. The list can go on. Each indicator can be easily verified and published in a decentralized data storage system, such as Blockchain. In this way, citizens' voices will be calibrated based on their authority in matters of government management. It is even possible to consider the option of regular qualification testing for every citizen who wishes to increase their rating. The higher the expected rating, the more professional and complex the questions will be, specifically in the areas of economics, law, or state history. By using decentralized data storage and processing technologies, it is possible to completely eliminate bias in assessment and any form of corruption.

Such "calibrated" democracy will solve two problems at once. Firstly, it will bring to power those who deserve it and whose opinion we should all really rely on. Secondly, it will explain to everyone else what exactly they lack in order to also become those whose opinion the whole country listens to. At the same time, this will be done openly, objectively, and fairly, minimizing the eternal conflict between the rich and the poor, the intelligent and the foolish, the bottom and the top of any society.

Most likely, this model will not lead to a change of people in power. However, it will make the electoral formula significantly more understandable and fair. After all, these qualities are exactly what modern democracy lacks.

I am very grateful to Dmitry Fomenko for the idea.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:22:46 +0300.