[Racism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Racism), [antisemitism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antisemitism), nationalism, chauvinism, sexism, homophobia, and other forms of intraspecies [xenophobia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xenophobia) are considered by Conrad Lorenz, the author of the book "The So-Called Evil," to be the most serious dangers threatening humanity in modern cultural, historical, and technological conditions. Lorenz believes that they are the result of intraspecies selection that has been acting on our ancestors for tens of thousands of years, and Erich Fromm, in his book "The Anatomy of Human Destructiveness," considers them to be one of the main obstacles to human progress. What should be done and how can this evil be eradicated?

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

Let's assume that scientists are right and it is imperative to take action to prevent it from impeding progress and posing a threat to humanity (although it has existed for thousands of years and progress has somehow managed to coexist with it; however, let's leave this logical inconsistency on the scientists' conscience). Do campaigns against, for example, racism, help to overcome it or do they have the opposite effect?

In 2020, the United Nations held the "World Conference Against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance" in South Africa, during which it was stated that (I quote), "any doctrine of racial superiority is scientifically invalid, morally condemnable, socially unjust, and dangerous and should be rejected along with theories attempting to establish the existence of separate human races." How is it possible to declare them scientifically invalid before any doctrines or theories even exist?

[Jens Rydgren](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jens_Rydgren), a professor of sociology at Stockholm University, writes in his work [The Logic of Xenophobia](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/1043463104043712): "Racism and xenophobia can appear quite rational from the aggressor's perspective when they are unaware or misled about the target of their attack" (my loose translation from English). We don't have to look far for an example: [Borat Sagdiyev](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Borat_Sagdiyev) from the [eponymous film](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Borat) believed that Jews could transform into cockroaches. He was not responsible for having such knowledge in his curly head, and he had no intention of questioning this truth. Based on the limited information he had about Jews, Borat's animosity towards them was entirely justified.

It is very difficult to make Borat stop hating Jews, whom he believes can transform into insects. The only way to deal with such radical anti-Semitism is to explain or scientifically prove that this version is a fiction.

It is worth noting that not every xenophobia is as comical as Borat's fear of Jews. In the overwhelming majority of cases, every hatred has a logical explanation that underlies offensive generalization.

For example, according to statistics, more than half of the murders in the United States are committed by African American citizens, while they make up only 13% of the total population. Should a police officer, when apprehending an African American criminal, take into account this statistic and take stricter safety measures than if they were apprehending, let's say, an Indian? Wouldn't the use of this statistic be offensive towards the specific offender who happened to be African American through no fault of their own?

Another example: currently, the overwhelming majority of civil aviation pilots are men. Should an airline conduct additional training and assessments when hiring female pilots, for example, to test their stress resistance, as women are believed to handle stress worse? Should airlines inform passengers that their flight will be piloted by a woman? Would such information be offensive to a specific female pilot who may very well be more stress-resistant than the average representative of the "women" social group?

And finally, another example: you are walking with your child and find yourself near a stadium where a football match has just ended in defeat. Excited people with masks on their faces and cold weapons in their hands surround you. They haven't started smashing windows or flipping cars yet, but it's highly likely that it's heading in that direction. Will you explain to your child that these are aggressive football fans and it's best to stay away from them? It's entirely possible that many of them are wonderful people. Furthermore, not all football fans smash windows. Your generalization will undoubtedly offend many of them, but it will save your child's life. What will you choose, lengthy discussions about political correctness and tolerance, or immediate stereotyping and evacuation to a safe place?

<aside class="quote"> Logic is the gift of the minority. The majority is susceptible to the influence of prejudices and biases. <span><a href="https://citaty.info/quote/249043">Dale Carnegie</a></span> </aside>

I mean that not every xenophobia and even hatred is unfounded and is a prejudice. One must be able to distinguish between the two and fight against the latter, getting rid of senseless violence and aggression, which, as we know from Fromm, are the main obstacles on the path of human progress. The only remedy against prejudices can be only one: enlightenment.

However, the opposite is happening. The UN, as we can see, condemns any theories about the existence of races and instead of identifying contradictions, highlighting differences, and analyzing the strengths and weaknesses of different social groups, all people are considered equal. Instead of enlightenment, which is always based on doubts and internal conflicts, we are offered empty slogans like "black lives matter" that are emotionally charged but lack substance. Education is being blocked. Sensitive social topics are being tabooed. Scientists are being stripped of honorary titles. Any discussion of inequality that does not involve radical polarization and unequivocal condemnation of everything negative is deemed racist and leads to a boycott of anyone who mistakenly engages in such a discussion.

A few years ago, I participated in a computer conference in a small Western European city. In the corridors, I struck up conversations with several other speakers like myself. We touched upon the topic of racism, and I allowed myself to mention what I wrote in this article above: not everything is so straightforward, and it is important to understand that if people of color commit crimes several times more frequently, it is not enough to demand an unbiased attitude towards them; we also need to address the crimes and do something to reduce their level. Within a few minutes, the table we were sitting at emptied. The discussion ended before it even began, as the participants simply fled from sin.

Supposedly, by moving towards a noble goal - the reduction of xenophobia - we achieve the opposite effect, as we act through repressive methods. Tabooing the topic and intimidating scientists will not eliminate social, racial, gender, or national conflicts. Only through education and enlightenment, which require open discussions and debates, can we address these issues. However, discussions are becoming increasingly scarce, disputes are prohibited, and dissenting voices are silenced.

And perhaps it would be beneficial for someone to solve the opposite task under the guise of fighting hatred worldwide: fueling the fire of xenophobia with the logs of foolishness, narrow-mindedness, and fanaticism.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:31:18 +0300.