On May 25th in the city of Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA, a 46-year-old African American man named George Floyd, who was infected with the coronavirus, died as a result of fentanyl-methamphetamine intoxication. He was attempting to pay for cigarettes with a counterfeit $20 bill, which led to his arrest and subsequent killing by a white police officer. This incident was captured on the cellphone cameras of bystanders and sparked widespread protests and riots throughout the United States under the banner of the Black Lives Matter movement, with the slogan "I can't breathe." Let us explore why and how this happened.

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

First of all, according to statistics, police officers in the United States kill approximately three people every day, with around 70% of them being African Americans. It is hard to believe that only Floyd was lucky enough to be caught on camera by "random" passersby, and that he was the only one who managed to say "I can't breathe" before his death (although, the incident is certainly very indicative).

Secondly, according to statistics, police killings are decreasing every year, and African Americans are becoming their victims less frequently. According to the Wall Street Journal, racism in the police force is nothing but a myth.

Thirdly, according to statistics, racism in the United States is decreasing every year: in 1950, only 5% of white people approved of marriages with people of color, while in 2013, over 85% had no objections. Against this backdrop, it seems rather strange, for example, the statement made by Russian Foreign Ministry representative Maria Zakharova that "the problem of racism in the United States is growing." Obviously, someone wants it to "appear," while it is actually systematically disappearing.

Thus, it is evident that the problem of racism-related violence does not have a systemic or national character in American society. However, it is presented as a tragedy of global coronavirus proportions, rallying tens of thousands of both black and white individuals under its black-and-white banners. Why is this being done and who benefits from it?

Without being afraid to repeat myself, I suggest considering a conflict that is much more fundamental and profound than race: the class conflict. Capitalism, despite the high standard of living in most European and North American countries, has never lost its slaveholding essence inherited from earlier forms of social organization. The tension is caused not only by the notorious ever-growing gap between the rich and the poor, but also by the gap between the philosophies of the masters and the slaves: the majority toils to survive, while the minority owns and enjoys life without having to work at all.

There is no peaceful solution to this conflict, and there cannot be. Over the course of many hundreds of years, from Spartacus to Mao Zedong, humanity has only been able to find one solution: revolution, inevitably followed by repression, civil war, dictatorship, and... a return to previous positions.

The owners of factories, newspapers, and steamships are concerned about preventing a new uprising of the "hungry and enslaved." They are more concerned about this issue than overpopulation, climate change, famine, and epidemics. And it's not just about the People's Republic of China, which, with its modified but still communist ideology, is becoming a real threat to the global capitalist order as it gains economic power. The main issue is the inherent contradiction of capitalism according to Marx, which does not disappear no matter how many slaves are fed with new iPhones and low-interest mortgages.

Creating distracting conflicts is an excellent way to mask the main conflict: from now on, it is not capitalism that is the cause of the oppressive and escalating hopelessness of life for the middle class in the West, but racism, sexism, anti-Semitism, masculism, feminism, environmental pollution, domestic violence (emphasis needed). All efforts are thrown into fighting these social ailments, but defeating them is, of course, impossible. The struggle can and should continue indefinitely, creating a sense of revolutionary tension in society, showcasing broken windows, and emotionally satisfying those who would not mind, with leaders, rising against oppressors. The opportunity to rise is provided, but not against the oppressors, but against mythical racists whom no one has seen, but everyone considers it their duty to hate.

The riots, if they spontaneously erupted after the death of the unfortunate drug addict Floyd, spread across America and Europe not on their own. And they do not harm Trump, as some may think. On the contrary. They are beneficial to both Trump, Hillary, conservatives, democrats, and all the other lackeys of global capital who sponsor these riots. And we, understanding little of what is happening, take to the streets and demand an end to racism.

There is no racism. There is capitalism. But our limitedness and lack of foresight hinder us from demanding its cessation. And that's a shame.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:30:28 +0300.