I remember when I was four years old. There was a New Year's performance in kindergarten. Of course, with the fabulous Ded Moroz (Russian Santa Claus) and his equally fabulous Snegurochka (Snow Maiden). It was just a fairy tale, but after the celebration, I tried to explain to my parents that Ded Moroz was actually our janitor Ivan Ilyich. Unfortunately, I didn't have direct evidence at the time, but there were several indirect clues: the voice, eyes, and shoes of the fairy tale character were very similar to those of Uncle Vanya. I was very disappointed that my parents didn't want to listen to my arguments. They tried to convince me that Ded Moroz was real, and the janitor, who was strangely absent from the performance, simply fell ill that day.

Many years passed, and I learned that my childhood desire to find an alternative explanation for what was happening, contrary to the widely accepted version, is called a conspiracy theory. Like adult conspiracy theorists, I didn't have any undeniable evidence at the time, and I couldn't expose the conspiracy. Ded Moroz (Santa Claus) was exposed later when I became a full-fledged member of the closed group "adults," where children are not allowed for their own good. In the end, I realized the most important thing - being a conspiracy theorist is dangerous and unprofitable. No one will believe you anyway, and you will waste a lot of nerves and energy.

Later, much more serious stories replaced the harmless Grandfather, in which it was even more difficult to believe than in the fairy-tale character, despite the insistence of all official sources. For example, there is the story of how two American astronauts were stranded on the Moon in 1969, stayed there for twenty-one hours, then pressed the "Home" button, took off, docked with the spaceship waiting for them in lunar orbit, turned it around, and rushed towards the frozen and anxiously waiting Earth. Doubtful that it happened exactly like that? You are a conspiracy theorist and a supporter of the moon landing hoax.

Or take, for example, the unfinished story of how the planet was struck by a previously unknown coronavirus, spreading at the speed of the medieval plague and threatening all of us with inevitable and agonizing death... from a common cold. As evidence, there are graphs showing the spread of the virus, interviews with virusologists, and photographs of hospitals under construction. Is that not enough for you? Do you believe that the global media is deceiving you, that the numbers are falsified, and that COVID-19 patients do not exist? You are a crazy conspiracy theorist, and it is a waste of time to take your doubts seriously and discuss them.

To be fair, it is worth acknowledging that not all conspiracy theories are capable of discovering the janitor's mustache under the guise of Santa Claus. Many of them are unable to even elicit a smile, for example, by seriously claiming that the Earth is flat, all watchmakers have conspired, and Australia does not exist. However, now is not the time to discuss them or who is right: Holocaust deniers or builders of its memorials. I am certain that each of them has their own truth.

Any legend, whether it's about Santa Claus, Americans on the Moon, or the Chinese virus epidemic, has interested parties who benefit from the majority of us continuing to believe the legend as truth, while the minority is left with the demeaning status of conspiracy theorists. If we consider our civilization as a closed system, it is logical to assume that as long as the beneficiary is not overthrown and the legend is alive, this situation is advantageous for everyone. In other words, it will be better for all of us if the Americans' journey to the Moon is considered a factual event and the coronavirus epidemic is seen as a real threat.

For example, once we were convinced that the Sun revolves around the Earth, and all other versions were considered heresy and conspiracy theories. We lived happily until the time came and the legend and the truth swapped places. Another example, in the 19th century, Hungarian doctor Ignaz Semmelweis suggested that the mortality rate among childbirths could be reduced if hospital staff washed their hands before surgery, for which he was ridiculed and fired (antiseptics and bacteria were discovered much later). Conspiracy theorists and crazy authors of crazy ideas disrupt our ecosystem, and it, in turn, resists. At some point, it gives in, and yesterday's heresy is recognized as truth, and yesterday's truth is seen as innocent misconception. Until such a revolution occurs, the system remains in a state of relative calm, and the majority of its members (including us) are interested in this.

The viral hysteria unfolding before our eyes, if not orchestrated, is supported by various interested parties. However, its main beneficiary is us, obediently wearing masks and washing our hands for 20 seconds. What is our benefit? There are many, but I like this version. The mass antivirus psychosis will lead to increased hygiene, which in turn will weaken immunity, resulting in higher mortality rates and a reduction in the global population, the importance of which I have already mentioned. Thus, this relatively inexpensive campaign successfully contributes to addressing the global problem of overpopulation. Is this beneficial for us as individuals? Of course not. Is it beneficial for civilizations as a whole? Yes.

However, humanity still benefits from having a legend in which hundreds of millions of children believe. Does each of us need a viral epidemic that kills small businesses and slows down the economy? No. However, apparently, we all together need it.

And what other benefits, in your opinion, can an epidemic bring to civilization as a whole?

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo on 2023-08-16 09:33:32 +0300.