For the past approximately 400 years, since the time of Locke, we have been living under the banner of freedom, equality, and brotherhood. It is now difficult to imagine a reasonable person who seriously denies the importance of personal freedom, the value of human life, the virtue of social equality, and the preciousness of peace, friendship, and love. These concepts seem to be the foundation of our morality. They have always been with us and will remain forever. However, I suggest looking deeper and understanding what freedom really is and whether it truly benefits us.

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

In his Two Treatises of Government, English educator and philosopher John Locke formulated: "freedom is to follow my own will in all cases where the law does not prohibit it." Armed with this obviously attractive formula and inspired by early humanists, liberal revolutionaries of all kinds have been changing the social fabric of European countries for years, along with the consciousness of its inhabitants. As a result, according to Valery Kuvakin, a professor at Moscow State University, "the Constitution of the Russian Federation is an expression of victorious liberalism-capitalism in terms of its source and content," and we are liberals too!

[Vladimir Putin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vladimir_Putin), at a meeting with schoolchildren, [stated](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2017/jul/21/putin-russian-president-freedom-ends-where-other-peoples-begins): "freedom ends where the freedom of another person begins," echoing the thoughts of [Mikhail Bakunin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mikhail_Bakunin), one of the early theorists of anarchism and populism.

<aside class="quote"> Liberalism is excessive tolerance, harmful indulgence, permissiveness. <span><a href="https://classes.ru/all-russian/russian-dictionary-Efremova-term-41614.htm">Dictionary</a></span> </aside>

Thus, freedom is possible as long as two "free" individuals do not conflict with each other. "Is internet censorship acceptable?" - asked the students to the president. "Certainly not," - the president replied...and added that - "if it involves calls for terrorism, then of course it is acceptable." This was followed by a quote from Bakunin. In other words, as long as your actions do not interfere with others, we are willing to grant you freedom, but once they contradict our expectations, your freedom will be restricted.

The key words here are "conflict" and "contradiction". Where they are absent, there is freedom, and where they exist, freedom cannot be.

Who will control and punish those who encroach upon the freedom of each of us? Roskomnadzor? Moral police? Public court? "Conscience!" - says a prepared libertarian. Each of us must have a moral principle, as Immanuel Kant bequeathed, which will not allow us to encroach upon the freedom of others. At first, of course, while we are building the society of the future, not everyone will have it. Therefore, we will still need both a court and a police force, acting in accordance with John Stuart Mill's essay, which recommends using violence against a person "only when he harms others." Eventually, sooner or later, people will learn to live without conflicts and contradictions, and will stop harming each other.

Is it really good when society consists of those who avoid conflicts by trying not to contradict the interests of others? Can we develop while constantly looking back at those who are hindered by our progress? And, in general, is progress possible - the "basic law of nature" according to the liberal Voltaire - without conflict? Can a good teacher be tolerant of the mistakes of underachievers? Can a scientist create something new, fearing to offend colleagues? Can a new product be released, fearing to harm competitors? It sounds absurd.

However, it is precisely this that liberals lead us to under the slogans of freedom. It is precisely to a society without conflicts - national, domestic, economic, cultural, and political - to a society of freedom!

Certainly, none of this ultimately works. In a society that has been raised for centuries with the mentality of "everyone does what they want as long as they don't disturb their neighbor," people are inherently repulsed by the idea of violence against them. They are born, it seems to them, free, and therefore they despise both the state and the authorities, inevitably bringing violence into their lives. As a result, three times as many police officers are needed for such citizens compared to if violence had been an integral part of their existence from childhood, along with its derivatives: discipline, obedience, order, and control.

Violence in liberal societies is not only excessive, but also grotesquely hypocritical. Bright slogans about freedom and equality mask "exploitation and alienation," as noted by Professor Boris Kashnikov. The cowardly "do no harm to your neighbor" breeds weak, indifferent, tolerant, and compliant individuals --- ones that are easily exploited.

Everything would be different if a person did not fear causing harm to their neighbor, disturbing their "freedom", but considered conflict to be the norm - they would then calmly accept disciplined social order, respect subordination, consider any kind of work as the highest virtue, and of course would not allow alienation and exploitation. This would be a person of a completely different quality: firm, uncompromising, unforgiving, and consistent. They would consider obedience to be the highest good. Of course, not for just anyone, but for the "proletariat - the armed vanguard of all exploited and working people," as Lenin wrote.

It would be a different society and different people.

Those who have been instilling ideas of freedom in us for four centuries in a row are our enemies. We should not strive for freedom, but for order and discipline, as natural forms of rational violence. We should not fear violence, but respect and understand it. It is a part of our nature, and we must confront this fact head-on. Otherwise, others will do it for us, and we will remain slaves to our own tolerance.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:32:30 +0300.