It is no secret to anyone that the coronavirus epidemic is an artificially created hysteria, having no relation to viruses or epidemics, and its authors pursue goals completely unrelated to the protection of our health on a global scale. I may be mistaken, and you may be certain that things are exactly as they are told to us by Kommersant and Voice of America? Then you can stop reading, as it will not be interesting. However, if you, like me, do not believe in mass psychosis and would like to understand its true causes, let's try to figure it out.

I cannot confidently judge whether there is a viral infection called COVID-19 or not, as I am not an expert. I assume that it exists alongside other viruses, such as influenza, viral pneumonias, and other enemies of humanity that have been living alongside us for millions of years. However, I seriously doubt that this particular virus is as widespread and as dangerous as it is portrayed.

I have no (and cannot have) evidence, but the main conspiracy clue is the astonishing accuracy of the statistics provided to us. Despite international tension, East-West confrontation, and the widespread laziness and disorganization of programmers (which I know for a fact due to my job), the WHO manages to gather data on the infected, deceased, and recovered individuals with remarkable precision, down to each person, from all corners of the world, including Iran (which was recently targeted for destruction), Venezuela (which faced sanctions not long ago), Russia, China, and over 150 other countries. It is simply impossible to achieve such accuracy technically or organizationally. The conclusion is evident: the numbers are not collected, but fabricated. Therefore, someone needs this. Let's figure out who.

У меня есть несколько версий:

I'm sure there are other versions, but theories about chipping and vaccination seem to me to be fabricated and meaningless.

Пишите в комментариях, обсудим.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo on 2023-08-16 09:33:45 +0300.