If we believe historians, first there were empires, emperors, and slavery. Then the empires fell, as they became ashamed, and the dark ages of medieval feudalism began, which eventually bored all enlightened people and, "amid the cries of newly discovered redskins," the New Era arrived, followed by the Renaissance. Slavery was not abolished immediately, but democracy was gradually introduced. All former slaves were given equal rights, with laws and constitutions being printed for them. Kings and emperors were either hanged or renamed as "constitutional," thus freeing the individual from the oppression of others, but in vain...

{% jb_picture_body %}

<!--more-->

The main achievement of many years of our struggle for freedom is the recognition of the right of every individual to have their own beliefs. What prevented them from having them before the victory of liberalism? Not what, but who. Other individuals hindered the freedom-loving individual, who, unsurprisingly, also had their own convictions. From the king to the local landowner - everyone had their own opinion, which the serf had to take into account. And not just take into account, but obey someone else's will, sometimes under the threat of death. It's good that all of this is already in the distant past.

Liberal reforms depersonalized power, replacing the owner with parliament, and its good or evil will with laws. In dark times, runaway serfs were returned to the feudal lord who both executed and pardoned them. In modern times of triumphant democracy, border violators are caught by customs control, and punished by the penitentiary system. It is interesting that we are satisfied with the power of laws, while the power of a specific individual causes rejection. We are much more willing to be slaves to the constitution, police, and society than to an individual. We have replaced the power of specific authorities with the authority of nameless power.

The United States, as the guardian of liberalism, has been attacking its opponents with the same weapon for decades: "the lack of power alternation indicates limitations on freedom!" It doesn't matter how a dictator behaves - their long stay in power poses a threat to the liberal world order. No matter what freedoms they grant to their subjects, no matter how successful their economy is, no matter how just their will is, and no matter what support they enjoy from their people - they are usurpers and medieval tyrants. A freedom-loving nation is obligated to overthrow them and establish the rule of impersonal laws and parliaments.

"Equality and freedom are merely slogans used by certain social classes or circles to overthrow those currently in power and come into power themselves. Once this goal is achieved, they conveniently forget about them." - Julius Evola, "Men and Ruins", 1953

The civilized world prides itself on the rotation of power. Presidential and parliamentary elections, capturing the attention of the entire population of the country, regularly remind us that those in power will be replaced in the near future. Why will they be replaced? Because they failed? Because they turned out to be deceivers? Because they did not live up to our trust? No! They will be replaced because we do not recognize anyone's authority over us, except for the authority of laws. We do not acknowledge the power and control of another individual over us. Each of us is a unique and inviolable person, with our own inner world, beliefs, opinions, and understanding of life. We may tolerate another charlatan in a suit behind the podium for a while, but to accept that they are the arbiters of our destiny - never!

To further strengthen our belief in our victory over the forces of despotism, we are shown the insignificance and vulnerability of those in power. Corruption and sexual scandals surrounding US presidents no longer surprise us, and it is time to put one of them behind bars. It is so democratic that presidents are capable of falling in love, getting divorced, and accepting bribes. Not like the kings of the time of the Louis, about whom the common people only knew that they were chosen by God and would execute their subjects in the most brutal ways whenever convenient.

We, ordinary people, have won! Power belongs to us! The kings are overthrown! Only clowns remain (sometimes, quite literally, we remember Reagan and Zelensky), from whom little depends! Everything depends on us, on our will, on our voting voice!

Ой-ли...

Neither power nor resources can be depersonalized, nor can they belong to everyone at once. Human beings are not only social creatures but also herd animals. We have a natural inclination to form hierarchies and submit to leaders. The apparent absence of dictators and hierarchies of power directly subordinate to them only indicates that their existence is carefully concealed. Both power and resources have long been distributed among those who realized in time that the profession of a king had become unsafe and retreated into the corporate shadow, leaving well-paid sycophants on the podiums.

Masking themselves as actor-politicians and controlling resources through corporations, the people in real power act in their own interests rather than in the interests of the people who, unknowingly, entrusted them with power and resources. Can we, the people, control them if we don't even know the names of these plutocrats? We are familiar with the names of "bloody" dictators. Even though they make mistakes and usurp power, at least their own conscience and sense of responsibility towards the people control them. But who and what controls the oligarchs?

Returning to the reasons: our liberal rejection of "royal authority" has led us to the rule of the oligarchy. We are bribed with promises of "freedom and equality," but in the end, we are sold democracy in its most repugnant forms: with fake politicians and the absolute irresponsibility of the ruling class.

Translated by gpt-3.5-turbo/ru-0.1 on 2023-08-18 14:33:12 +0300.